SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING 
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING 
ACADEMIC YEAR: 2019-20 

   YEAR: II 

              SEMESTER: I 

REGULATION: R18 

Course Name: Surveying & Geomatics 

                 Course Code: CE301PC 

CO1 

CO2 

Able to Summarize the types of surveying and their measuring techniques of determining the 
distances and directions.. 
Able to Survey for the construction of road, canals and contours  by using different types of 
leveling techniques 
Able to evaluate the areas and volumes using different methods 

CO3 
CO4  Able to extend the knowledge of theodolite in tacheometric surveying and curve setting and 

understand the advanced surveying like Geodetic surveying, Total Station, GPS and GIS 
Able to explain the concept of Photogrammetry Surveying 

CO5 

Course Name:  Engineering Geology 

         Course Code: CE302PC  

CO1 
CO2 

CO3 

CO4 

CO5 

Able to Explain the difference between physical and mechanical weathering. 
Able to determine the compressive strength of rock granite and other rocks 
Able to evaluate the various types of geo physical methods, geological formations, 
structures, textures. 
Able to distinguish dykes and sills, folds, faults, weathering and erosion and igneous, 
sedimentary and metamorphic rocks.  
Able to list out and classify the various types of dams, reservoirs and tunnels. 

Course Name:   Strength of Materials-I 

                      Course Code: CE303PC 
Able  to  determine  the  stresses  and  strains  in  the  members  subjected  to  axial  and  bending 
loads. 
Able  to  construct  the  Shear  Force  and  Bending  Moment  diagrams  for  different  beams 
subjected to various loads. 
Able to determine the shear stresses and flexural stresses in structural members. 
Able to determine the principal stresses and strains in structural members 
Able to evaluate the slope and deflection of beams subjected to various loads 

Course Name:   Probability & Statistics 

                    Course Code:  MA304BS 
Able  to  Analyze  random  variables  involved  in  the  probability  models  and  apply  them  for 
various branches of engineering 
Able to Understand the basic ideas of probability and random variables and various discrete 
probability distributions and their properties. 
Able  to  Understand  the  basic  ideas  of  probability  and  random  variables  and  various 
Continuous probability distributions and their properties. 
Able  to  Understand  the  basic  ideas  of  statistics  including  measures  of  central  tendency, 
correlation and regression. 
Able  to  calculate  mean  and  proportion  (small  and  large  sample)  and  to  make  important 
decisions  from  few samples which are taken out of unimaginably huge populations which is 
useful for non circuit branches of engineering. 

CO1 

CO2 

CO3 
CO4 
CO5 

CO1 

CO2 

CO3 

CO4 

CO5 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Course Name:   Fluid Mechanics 

                     Course Code: CE305PC 

CO1 
CO2 

CO3 

CO4 
CO5 

Able to Understand the properties of  Fluid Mechanics and apply them for Fluid Statics. 
Able to Classify the fluid flows and use momentum principles in Fluid Dynamics. 
Able to Apply the Bernoulli’s equation practically and also Understand the flow over Notches 
and Weirs 
Able to Understand the concept of flow through pipes and Analyze the pipe Network 
Able to Apply boundary layer theory Concepts for Laminar and Turbulent flows. 

Course Name:  Surveying Lab 
CO1 
CO2 
CO3 
CO4 

Able to Apply the principle of surveying for civil engineering applications. 
Able to Calculate areas using chain and compass survey, plane table and plot them. 
Able to  evaluate the levels of grounds using theodolite and perform trigonometrical leveling 
Able to understand the usage of Total station and determine various parameters. 

           Course Code: CE306PC 

Course Name:  Strength of Materials Lab 
CO1  Able to Determine hardness of metals. 
CO2  Able to Classify the materials like steel, concrete, etc. depending upon the strength. 
CO3  Able to Find out the compression strength of spring, wood and concrete 
CO4  Able to Determine the Elastic Constants of steel by conducting flexural and torsion tests 
CO5  Able to Find out the Tensile strength of Materials like steel, etc. by Tension test 

                     Course Code: CE307PC 

Course Name:  Engineering Geology Lab 
CO1  Able to Understand the properties of Rocks 
CO2  Able to Understand the properties of minerals 
CO3  Able to Measure the strike and dip of the bedding planes. 
CO4  Able to Interpret the geological maps 
CO5  Able to Solve the geological problems. 

                     Course Code: CE308PC 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
YEAR: II 

                   SEMESTER: II 

REGULATION: R18 

Course Name:  BEEE  

Course Code: EE401ES 

CO1  Able to Recall fundamentals of electrical circuits and outline measuring instruments 
CO2  Able to Discuss DC generators and types of DC motors 
CO3  Able to Explain the working of transformers and AC machines 
CO4  Able to Analyze characteristics of diodes rectifiers and transistors 
CO5  Able to Explain construction of cathode ray oscilloscope 

Course Name:  BMECE 
CO1  Able to Distinguish between various engineering materials and understand their applications 
CO2  Able to Compare and select various power transmission elements and understand their usage in 

Course Code: CE402PC 

civil engineering equipment 

CO3  Able to Explain the various principles of Thermal engineering and their applications 
CO4  Able to classify various manufacturing processes and choose suitable process for civil engineering 

applications 

CO5  Able to Differentiate between various machine tools and select appropriate machine tool based on 

the requirement. 

CO1 

CO2 

Course Name:  BMCP 

Course Code: CE403PC 
Able  to  understand  the  types  of  building  stones  and  bricks  and  their  composition  and 
characteristics. 
Able  to  discuss  the  manufacturing  process  of  timber,  aluminum,  glass,  paints,  plastics,  cement, 
different  tests on cement and various types of admixtures.  
Able  to  explain  building  components  like  lintels,  arches,  walls,  vaults,  stair  cases,  floors  and 
building services of plumbing, sanitary, ventilation, etc., 
CO4  Able to discuss about mortars, masonry, finishes and formwork. 
CO5  Able to understand about building planning and bye-laws. 

CO3 

Course Name:  SoM-II 
CO1  Able to explain the theory of torsion and springs. 
CO2  Able to understand the concept of columns and struts. 
CO3  Able to understand the concept of direct and bending stresses. 
CO4  Able to Summarize about unsymmetrical bending moment and beams used in the plan. 
CO5  Able to distinguish between thin Cylinders and thick Cylinders. 

Course Code: CE404PC 

Course Name:  HHM   
CO1  Able to Compare the types of open channel flows and most economical sections 
CO2  Able to Extend the knowledge on non-uniform flow and dynamic equation for Gradually Varied 

Course Code: CE405PC 

Flow 

CO3  Able to Interpret about dimensional analysis, similitude, hydraulic models and numbers 
CO4  Able to Distinguish between different types of hydrodynamic forces on jets 
CO5  Able to Summarize the different types of turbines and pumps and study their properties in 

hydropower plant. 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Name:  SA-I 
CO1  Able to Solve the forces in members for prefect frames 

Course Code: CE406PC 

CO2 

Able to  calculate  the deflections of beams using  energy theorems   and  analyze the three hinged 
arches 

CO3  Analyze the propped cantilevers and fixed beams. 

CO4 

Able to Analyze continuous beams by clapeyron’s three moment theorem and analyze beams, and 
portal frames using Slope deflection method  

CO5  Able to Sketch influence line diagrams for the moving loads. 

Course Code: CE407PC 
Course Name:  CADCED Lab 
CO1  Able to explain and use the Autocad commands for drawing 2D & 3D building drawings required 

for different civil engineering applications. 

CO2  Able to Plan and construct the Civil Engineering Buildings as per aspect and orientation 
CO3  Able to present drawings as per user requirements and preparation of technical report 

Course Name:  BEEE LAB 
CO1  Able to analyze and solve electrical circuits using network laws and theorems. 
CO2  Able to understand and analyze basic Electric and Magnetic circuits 
CO3  Able to study the working principles of Electrical Machines 
CO4  Able to understand components of Low Voltage Electrical Installations 
CO5  Able to identify and characterize diodes and various types of transistors. 

Course Code: EE409ES 

Course Name: HHM Lab 
CO1  Able to Describe the basic measurement techniques of fluid mechanics and its appropriate 

Course Code: CE409PC 

application. 

CO2  Able to Interpret the results obtained in the laboratory for various experiments 
CO3  Able  to  Discover  the  practical  working  of  Hydraulic  machines-  different  types  of  Turbines, 

Pumps, and other miscellaneous hydraulics machines 

CO4  Able to Compare the results of analytical models introduced in lecture to the actual behavior of 

real fluid flows and draw correct and sustainable conclusions 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
YEAR: III 

SEMESTER: I  

REGULATION: R16 

Course Name:  Concrete Technology   
CO1  Able to compare the types of cement, admixtures and aggregates and can identify their usage. 
CO2  Able to explain workability of fresh concrete and tests conducted to determine it. 
CO3  Able to understand the concept of the hardened concrete. 
CO4  Able to design mix proportions for different grades of concretes using different methods 
CO5  Able to understand the properties of various special concretes 

Course Code: CE501PC 

Course Name:  DRCS   
CO1  Able to Design RC Structural elements 
CO2  Able to Design the Reinforced Concrete beams using limit state 
CO3  Able to Design Reinforced Concrete slabs 
CO4  Able to Design the Reinforced Concrete Columns and footings Design structures for serviceability 
CO5  Able to Design staircases and canopy 

           Course Code: CE502PC 

Course Name:  WRE   
CO1  Able to explain about hydrological cycle, types of formation of precipitation, rain gauges, and 

Course Code: CE503PC 

runoff 

CO2  Able to define hydrograph analysis, limitations and applications. S-hydrograph, synthetic unit 

hydrograph 

CO3  Able to examine the ground water occurrence, porosity, specific yield, permeability, transmissivity   

and storage coefficient 

CO4  Able to understand the necessity and importance of irrigation, advantages and its effects 
CO5  Able to classify the canals and design  by Kennedy’s and lacey’s theories 

Course Name: FoM  
CO1  Able to Understand the significance of management in their profession 
CO2  Able to Define and summarize the importance of planning and decision making techniques 
CO3  Able to Describe the organizational structures and effective utilization of Human resources in the 

          Course Code: SM504MS 

organization. 

CO4  Able to identify Importance of leadership and motivation to reach the organizational goals 
CO5  Able to Define controlling and enlist its features, process and different controlling techniques 

Course Name:  NCPG  
CO1  Able to explain renewable energy sources and systems. 
CO2  Able to apply engineering techniques to build solar, wind, tidal,geothermal,biofuel,fuel cell, 

         Course Code: EE511OE 

hydrogen and sterling engine. 

CO3  Able to analyze and evaluate the implication of renewable energy, concepts in solving numerical 

problems pertaining to solar radiation geometry and wind energy systems. 

CO4  Able to demonstrate self learning capability to design and establish renewable energy systems. 
CO5  Able to conduct experiments to assess the performance of solar PV, solar thermal and biodiesel 

systems. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Name: CT LAB  
CO1  Able to understand the properties of cement. 
CO2  Able to understand the workability and other fresh concrete properties. 
CO3  Able to understand the properties of hardened concrete. 
CO4  Able to understand the tests on the self compacting concrete. 
CO5  Able to Perform the Non Destructive tests of concrete. 

Course Name:  GIS LAB 
CO1  Able to study the toposheets and cadastral maps. 
CO2  Able to develop the GIS interface to field problems through geofencing 
CO3  Able to explain the digitization and GIS Coordination. 
CO4  Able to explain the usage of GIS software with a case example. 

Course Code: CE505PC 

Course Code: CE506PC 

Course Code: CE507PC 
Course Name:  HHM LAB 
CO1  Able to Analyze the performance of Pelton wheel, Francis turbine and Kaplan turbine by drawing 

its performance curves. 

CO2  Able to Analyze the performance of centrifugal pump and reciprocating pump by drawing its 

performance curves. 

CO3  Able to Study of the flow in open channel and find the discharge using various weirs. 
CO4  Able to Understand the evaluation of the impact of jet on vanes. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
YEAR: III 

SEMESTER: I I 

REGULATION: R16 

Course Name:  DSS 
CO1  Able to Design the bolted, welded connections and tension members 
CO2  Able to Design the compression members for column splice and column base 
CO3  Able to Extend the knowledge of plastic moment of beams and design them 
CO4  Able to Design the eccentric connections for unstiffened and stiffened seated connections 
CO5  Able to Interpret the knowledge of beams on welded plate girder and connections between flange 

Course Code: CE601PC 

and splice. 

Course Name:  EE 
CO1  Able to Acquire the knowledge of the water borne diseases 
CO2  Able to Acquire the knowledge of sources of water 
CO3  Able to Develop skills in designing the water treatment plant 
CO4  Able to Develop skills in control of Air pollution 
CO5  Able to Develop an understanding of sources of water and water supply. 

Course Code: CE602PC 

Course Name:  Soil Mechanics  
CO1  Able to Interpret the basic and index properties of the soils. 
CO2  Able to Explain the properties and factors affecting permeability and demonstrate the properties of flow 

Course Code: CE603PC 

nets and its uses 

CO3  Able to Understand the concept of compaction and stress distribution in soils. 
CO4  Able to explain the concepts of consolidation & analyze the Terzaghi’s one dimensional consolidation 

theory. 

CO5  Able to understand the concept and Determine the shear strength of soil. 

Course Name:  ERDSS 
CO1  Able to Describe the behavior of natural and engineered soil slopes under various weather and 

Course Code: CE614PC 

engineering conditions. 

CO2  Able to Explain the factors that may affect the stability of slopes 
CO3  Able to Select an appropriate slope stability analysis method subject to geometry of slope, material 

properties, and uncertainty of observations 
CO4  Able to Assess the potential landslide risk of slopes. 
CO5  Able to Design earth and rock fill dams, get familiarity with slope stability Calculations and 

prevention techniques for slope failures. 

Course Name: Fabrication Process   
CO1  Able to understand casting process and interpret foundry practices and  inspection of defects. 
CO2  Able to select appropriate joining process to join work piece. 
CO3  Able to differentiate various metals forming process. 
CO4  Able to classify different plastic deformation of extrusion of metals 
CO5  Able to understand the different forging operations, principles, tools and forging methods 

           Course Code: ME623OE 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Name:  SM LAB 
CO1  Able to Perform Atterberg limits test and sieve analysis for quality control 
CO2  Able to Analyze the behavior of soil by CBR test and tri-axial test 
CO3  Able to Interpret Direct shear test , Vane shear strength parameters and unconfined compression 
CO4  Able to Conduct Constant head and variable head test for permeability. 
CO5  Able to Conduct One Dimensional consolidation Test and compaction Test 

Course Code: CE604PC 

Course Name:  CAD –II LAB   
CO1 
CO2 
CO3 
CO4 
CO5 

Sketch the reinforcement in different types of beams 
Sketch the reinforcement in Columns & footings 
Sketch the reinforcement in different types of Slabs 
Sketch the bolted and welded connections of steel 
Sketch different steel members 

Course Code: CE605PC 

Course Name:  AECS LAB 
CO1  Able to Acquire vocabulary and use it contextually 
CO2  Able to Use Listening and speaking skills effectively 
CO3  Able to Develop proficiency in academic reading and writing 
CO4  Able to Increase possibilities of Job prospects 
CO5  Able to Communicate confidently in formal and informal contexts. 

Course Code: EN606HS 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
YEAR: IV 

SEMESTER: I  

REGULATION: R16 

Course Name: Transportation Engineering  
Course Code: CE701PC 
CO1  Able to Explain about Highway development and planning and evaluate the highway cross section 

elements 

CO2  Able to Construct the different types of Curves, Gradients, Super elevation and extra widening for 

highways. 

CO3  Able  to  Understand  the  Traffic  Parameters,  Traffic  signs,  Road  markings  and  Traffic  signal 

phasing timings 

CO4  Able to Define Intersections and choose the intersections for controlling of traffic in pavements 
CO5  Able to Explain about Highway materials and  maintenance for the construction of Highways 

Course Name:  EQSV   
CO1  Able to estimate the quantities of buildings using the two standard methods and calculate the cost. 

Course Code: CE702PC 

CO2  Able to estimate the quantities for roads and earth works 
CO3  Able to determine the different kinds of analysis of rates. 
CO4  Able to develop Bar Bending Schedule for different kinds of bars. 
CO5  Able to evaluate the buildings which are helpful for the Revenue Department 

Course Name:  FE 
CO1  Able to Analyze the need and methods of soil exploration and to learn the field test and soil 

            Course Code: CE723PE 

investigation 

CO2  Able to Apply knowledge for stability of slopes of earth dams under different conditions 
CO3  Able to interpret the earth pressure theories and design of retaining walls 
CO4  Able to explain the theory of shallow foundation and to understanding the concept of pile 

foundation 

CO5  Able to Describe the properties of pile and well foundation and their functions 

Course Name:  GIT 
CO1  Able to understand the basic concepts of Ground Improvement Techniques 
CO2  Able to explain the concept of mechanical and hydraulic modifications 
CO3  Able to explain the concept of physical and chemical modifications 
CO4  Able to explain the concept of modification by inclusions and confinement. 
CO5  Able to identify the suitable ground improvement techniques for specific project and its 

             Course Code: CE733PE 

implications. 

Course Name:  Traffic Engineering 
CO1  Able to Understand the basic principles of Traffic engineering 
CO2  Able to analyze parking data and model accidents. 
CO3  Able to explain the Capacity and LOS. 
CO4  Able to design signals considering various parameters. 
CO5  Able to explain the transportation system management 

Course Code: CE714PE 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course Name:  TE LAB 
CO1  Able to determine the properties of Aggregate by applying loads gradually and suddenly. 

Course Code: CE703PC  

Aggregate Impact test, Aggregate Crushing test and Abrasion test 
CO2  Able to Demonstrate Shape tests and find Elongation and flakiness index 
CO3  Able to Illustrate Penetration, Ductility, Softening, flash and fire point tests. 
CO4  Able to determine strength of bitumen by means of Marshall stability test. 
CO5  Able to conduct the traffic volume counting and speed of vehicles by means of modern 

equipment. 

Course Name:  EE LAB 
CO1  Able to Quantify the water and wastewater pollutant. 
CO2  Able to Measure the concentration of air pollutants 
CO3  Able to Analyze the characteristics of water 
CO4  Able to Analyze the characteristics of  wastewater 
CO5  Able to Study the growth  of microorganism and its quantification 

Course Code: CE704PC 

Course Name:  MINI PROJECT 
CO1  Able to Apply the basic principles in Civil Engineering to fulfill the requirements. 
CO2  Able to Explain technical ideas, strategies and methodologies in an optimum manner 
CO3  Able to Demonstrate the outputs in an efficient manner. 

Course Code: CE705PC 

Identify the relevant topics related to Civil Engineering Subjects. 

Course Name:  SEMINAR 
CO1 
CO2  Evaluate the topics in a planned manner. 
CO3  Defend the presentations with a suitable answers. 

            Course Code: CE706PC 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
YEAR: IV 

SEMESTER: I I 

REGULATION: R16 

Course Name: Organizational Behavior 
CO1  Able to understand the concept of organizational behavior. 
CO2  Able to analyze the Job satisfaction levels and motivational theories. 
CO3  Able to evaluate the decision making techniques on organizational behavior 
CO4  Able to analyze  the importance of group versus teams 
CO5  Able to examine the level of performances in Organizational behavior. 

Course Code: EE833OE 

Course Name:  Pavement Design 
CO1  Able to Characterize the response characteristics of soil, aggregate, asphalt, and asphalt mixes 
CO2  Able to Analyze flexible pavements 
CO3  Able to Analyze rigid pavements 
CO4  Able to Design a flexible pavement using IRC, Asphalt Institute, and AASHTO methods 
CO5  Able to Design a rigid pavement using IRC and AASHTO methods 

Course Code: CE852PE 

Course Name:  IWWT  
CO1  Able to identify the characteristics of industrial waste water. 
CO2  Able to describe pollution effects of disposal of industrial effluent. 
CO3  Able to identify and design the treatment options for industrial waste water. 
CO4  Able to formulate environmental management plan. 
CO5  Able to understand the characteristics and composition of industries. 

             Course Code: CE864PE 

Course Name:  MAJOR PROJECT 
CO1  Able to Apply the basic principles in Civil Engineering to fulfill the requirements. 
CO2  Able to Explain technical ideas, strategies and methodologies in an optimum manner 
CO3  Able to Demonstrate the outputs in an efficient manner. 

Course Code: CE801PC 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
