(Approved by AICTE & PCI, New Delhi & Afﬁliated to JNTUH, Accredited by NAAC with A+ Grade)

Name :

Branch :

Roll No. :

Section :

B. Tech 1st Year (2025-26)

www.nnrg.edu.in 

Name 

Roll No. 

Branch 
Section 

& 

 APAAR ID 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CLASS TIME TABLE 

DAY/TIME 

09:15  
-  
10:10 

10:10 
- 
11:00 

11:00 
- 
11:50 

11:50
-
12:30 

12:30
-
01:20 

01:20
-
02:10 

L
U
N
C
H
B
R
E
A
K

Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

02:20   
-   
03:10 

03:10   
-   
04:00 

02:10 
- 
02:20 

  B
R
E
A
K

MID EXAMINATIONS TIME TABLE 

Timing: FN: 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM;  AN: 1:30 PM to 3:30 PM 

Subject 

MID-I 

MID-II 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nalla Narasimha Reddy Group of Institutions Integrated Campus 

FOUNDER 

Secretary 

Shri Nalla Narasimha Reddy 

Nalla Narasimha  Reddy Education 
Society’s Group of Institutions 

KEY FUNCTIONARIES OF NNRG 

NAME 

DESIGNATION 

Dr. C.V. Krishna Reddy 

Director 

Dr. G. Janardhana Raju 

Dean - School of Engineering 

Dr. Ch. Krishna Mohan 

Dean - School of Pharmacy 

Dr. T. Ravindra Reddy 

Dean - School of Management               Sciences 

Hallmarks of NNRG 

▪ 

▪ 

▪ 

DISCIPLINE 

HARD WORK 

RESPECT AND VALUES 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTENTS 

S. No.  Particulars 

ACADEMIC CALENDAR 

ACADEMIC  REGULATIONS 

VISION & MISSION 

QUALITY POLICY                                                                                                         27  
27 

GENERAL INFORMATION 

LOCATION & ACCESS 

COURSES @ NNRG 

CENTRAL FACILITIES 

27 
 28 
28 

CAMPUS OVERVIEW                                                                                                    30 
30 

GUIDELINES, RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE CAMPUS 

LIBRARY                                                                                                                          35 

37 
TRAINING & PLACEMENT CELL 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES                                                                                                 39 

INDUCTION  PROGRAMME                                                                                         45 

CONTACT INFORMATION 

COMMITTEES 

                  45 
46 

XVII 

COURSE STRUCTURE 

SYLLAUBUS, ASSIGNMENTS & PREVIOUS YEAR QUESTION PAPERS 

Page No. 

6 

7 

27 

47 

52 

61 

65

MATRICES AND CALCULUS 

ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY 

PROGRAMMING FOR PROBLEM SOLVING

BASIC ELECTRICAL  ENGINEERING                                                           69

INTRODUCTION TO ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING 
ELEMENTS  OF  ELECTRICAL  AND  ELECTRONICS 
ENGINEERING 
ENGINEERING  DRAWING  AND  COMPUTER  AIDED 
DRAFTING 
ENGLISH FOR SKILL ENHANCEMENT 

ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL  EQUATIONS AND VECTOR 
CALCULUS 

ADVANCED ENGINEERING PHYSICS 

ELECTRONIC DEVICES AND CIRCUITS 

DATA STRUCTURES 

PYTHON PROGRAMMING 

NETWORK ANALYSIS AND SYSNTHESIS

BUILDING PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION 

ENGINEERING MECHANICS FOR CIVIL ENGINEERS 

ADVANCED ENGINEERING PHYSICS LAB 

75 

80 

85 

94 

101 

107 

112 

116 

117 

119

121 

123 

125 

I. 
II 
III. 
IV. 
V. 
VI 
VII. 
VIII. 
IX. 
X. 
XI. 
XII. 
XIII. 
XIV. 
XV. 
XVI 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 
13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)4 
 
 
 
 
 
                      
     
 
 
 
 
18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

PROGRAMMING FOR PROBLEM SOLVING  LAB 

ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND COMMUNICATION SKILLS 
LAB 

ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LAB 

BASIC ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING LAB 

ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING LAB 

ELEMENTS  OF  ELECTRICAL  AND  ELECTRONICS 
ENGINEERING LAB 

ENGINEERING WORKSHOP 

PYTHON PROGRAMMING LAB 

IT WORKSHOP 

APPLIED PYTHON PRGORAMMING LAB 

DATA STRUCTURES LAB 

126 

129 

132 

134 

136 

137 

139 

140 

143 

146 

149 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 

ACADEMIC CALENDAR FOR 2025-26 

B. Tech I YEAR I & II SEMESTERS 
I SEMESTER 

S. No 

Description 

Induction Program 
Commencement of I Semester class work 
1st  Spell of Instructions 
Dusshera Holidays 
Continuation of 1st  Spell of Instructions 
First Mid Term Examinations 
Submission  of  First  Mid  Term  Exam 
Marks to the Exam Branch on or before 
2nd  Spell of Instructions 
Parent Teacher Meeting 

Second  Mid Term Examinations 

and 

Practical 

Preparation  Holidays 
Examinations 
Submission  of  Second  Mid  Term  Exam 
Marks to the Exam Branch on or before 
End Semester Examinations 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 

6 

7 
8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

II SEMESTER 

S. No 

Description 

Commencement of II Semester class work 
1st Spell of Instructions 
First Mid Term Examinations 
Submission  of  First  Mid  Term  Exam 
Marks to the Exam Branch on or before 
2nd Spell of Instructions 
Parent Teacher Meeting 
Summer Vacation 
3rd Spell of Instructions 
Second Mid Term Examinations 
Preparation  Holidays 
and 
Examinations 
Submission  of  Second  Mid  Term  Exam 
Marks to the Exam Branch on or before 

Practical 

1 
2 
3 

4 

5 
6 
7 
8 
9 

10 

11 

12 

Duration 

From 
18.08.2025 – 23.08.2025 (1 Week) 
25.08.2025 

To 

25.08.2025 
29.09.2025 
06.10.2025 
03.11.2025 

27.09.2025 (5 Weeks) 
04.10.2025 (1 Week) 
01.11.2025 (4 Weeks) 
08.11.2025 (1 Week) 

13.11.2025 

10.11.2025 

27.12.2025 (7 Weeks) 

15.11.2025 

29.12.2025 to 17.01.2026 (3 Weeks) 

06.01.2026 

19.01.2026 

31.01.2026 (2 Weeks) 

From 

Duration 

02.02.2026 

To 

02.02.2026 
30.03.2026 

28.03.2026 (8 Weeks) 
04.04.2026 (1 Week) 

07.04.2026 

06.04.2026 

08.05.2026 (5 Weeks) 

25.04.2026 
10.05.2026 to 24.05.2026 (2 Weeks) 
25.05.2026 to 06.06.2026 ( 2 Weeks) 

08.06.2026 to 20.06.2026 (2 Weeks) 

15.06.2026 

End Semester Examinations 

22.06.2026 

04.07.2026 (2 Weeks) 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II. 

ACADEMIC REGULATIONS (R25) 
ACADEMIC  REGULATIONS  R-25  FOR  B.TECH.  (REGULAR)  STUDENTS 
(Applicable  for  the  students  admitted  from academic  year  2025-2026  onwards) 

1.0 

Under-Graduate Degree Programme in Engineering & Technology (UGP in E&T) 

Nalla Narasimha Reddy Education Society’s Group of Institutions offers new regulations 
termed  as  R-25  regulations  for  four-year  (eight  semesters)  Bachelor  of  Technology 
(B.Tech.)  degree  Programme,  under  Choice  Based  Credit  System  (CBCS)  with  effect 
from the academic year 2025-26. 

2.0 

2.1 

2.2 

3.0 

3.1 

Eligibility for Admission 

Admissions to the undergraduate (UG) programme shall be made either on the basis of the 
merit rank obtained by the qualified students at the entrance test conducted by Telangana 
Government (EAPCET) or the University/Institution or on the basis of any other order of 
merit approved by the University, subject to reservations as prescribed by the government 
from time to time. 

The  medium  of  instruction  for  the  entire  undergraduate  programme  in  Engineering  & 
Technology will be English only. 

B.Tech. Programme Structure 

A student after securing admission shall complete the B.Tech. programme in a minimum 
period  of  four  academic  years  and  a  maximum  period  of  eight  academic  years  starting 
from  the  date  of  commencement  of  first  year  first  semester,  failing  which  student  shall 
forfeit seat in B.Tech. course. Each student has to secure a minimum of 160 credits out of 
164 credits for successful completion of the undergraduate programme and award of the 
B.Tech. degree. 

3.2 

UGC/  AICTE/University  specified  definitions/  descriptions  are  adopted  appropriately 
for various terms and abbreviations used in these academic regulations/ norms. 

3.2.1  Semester Scheme 

The undergraduate programme is of four academic years and there shall be two semesters 
in each academic year. There shall be a minimum of 15 weeks of instruction, excluding 
the mid- term and semester-end exams. Around 15 instruction hours, 30 instruction hours 
and  45  hours  of  learning  need  to  be  followed  per  one  credit  of  theory  course,  practical 
course  and  project/field-based  learning  respectively.  In  each  semester,  there  shall  be 
‘Continuous  Internal  Evaluation  (CIE)’  and  ‘Semester  End  Examination  (SEE)’  under 
Choice  Based  Credit  System  (CBCS).  The  curriculum/course  structure  suggested  by 
AICTE is followed as a reference document. 

3.2.2  Credit Courses 

All  courses  offered  in  each  semester  are  to  be  registered  by  the  student.  Against  each 
course  in  the  course  structure,  the  L:  T:  P:  C  (Lecture  periods:  Tutorial  periods: 
Practical  periods: 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)7 
 
 
 
 
Credits) pattern has been defined. 

•  One credit is allocated for one hour per week in a semester for lecture (L) or Tutorial 

(T) session. 

•  One credit is allocated for two hours per week in a semester for Laboratory/ Practical 

(P) session. 

•  One  credit  is  allocated  for  three  hours  per  week  in  a  semester  for  Project/Mini-

Project session. 

For  example,  a  theory  course  with  three  credit  weightage  requires  three  hours  of 
classroom  instruction  per  week,  totaling  approximately  45  hours  of  instruction  over 
the entire semester. 

3.2.3  Subject Course Classification 

All  subjects/courses  offered  for  the  undergraduate  programme  in  E&T  (B.Tech.  degree 
programmes) are broadly classified as follows. 

S. No. 

Broad  Course 
Classification 

Course 

Group/ 
Category 

Course Description 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

7 

8 

9 

Foundation 
Courses 
(FnC) 

Core 

Courses 

(CoC) 

Elective 
Courses 
(EℓC) 

BS – Basic Sciences 
ES 
-  Engineering 
Sciences 
HS  –  Humanities  and 
Social Sciences 

PC  –  Professional 
Core 
PE 
Electives 

–  Professional 

OE – Open Electives 

Includes Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry 
courses 

Includes Fundamental Engineering Courses 
Includes  courses  related  to  Humanities,  Social 
Sciences and Management 
Includes core courses related to the parent branch of 
Engineering. 

Includes  elective  courses  related  to  the  parent 
branch of Engineering. 
Elective 
inter-
disciplinary  courses  or  courses  in  an  area 
outside the parent branch of Engineering. 

courses  which 

include 

Project Core 

Project Work 

B.Tech. Project Work 

Training/ 
Industry 

Industry 
Internship/ 
Oriented Mini- 
project/Skill 
Development Courses 

Other 

Core 

Courses (OCC) 

Industry  Training/  Internship/  Industry  Oriented 
Mini- Project/Skill Development Courses 

Seminar 

Seminar  based  on  core  contents  related  to  parent 
branch of Engineering. 

10 

11 

Skill 
Development 
Courses (SDC) 
Value Added 
Courses (VAC) 

- 

- 

Courses  designed 
improve, or refine specific skills 

to  help 

individuals  gain, 

Courses to build professional values, traditional 
knowledge and sensitization of societal issues 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.0  Mandatory Induction Programme 

An induction program of one week duration for the UG students entering the institution, 
right at the start shall be implemented. Normal classes commence only after the induction 
programme is conducted. Following activities could be part of the induction programme: 
i) Physical Activity, ii) Creative Arts, iii) Imparting Universal Human Values, iv) Literary 
Activities,  v)  Lectures  by  Eminent  People,  vi)  Visits  to  Local  Areas  and  vii) 
Familiarization  to  department  as  well  as  entire  institute  and  viii)  Making  students 
understand Innovative practices at the college premises etc. 

5.0 

5.1 

5.2 

5.3 

5.4 

5.5 

5.6 

5.7 

5.8 

Course Registration 

A faculty advisor / mentor shall be assigned to a group of around 20 students, who will 
advise  the  students  about  the  undergraduate  programme,  its  course  structure  and 
curriculum,  choices/options  of  the  courses,  based  on  their  competence,  progress,  pre-
requisites and interest. 

The academic section of the college invites ‘registration forms’ from students before the 
beginning  of  the  semester  through  ‘on-line  registration’,  ensuring  ‘date  and  time 
stamping’. The  online  registration  requests  for  semester  courses  shall  be completed  two 
weeks before the commencement of SEEs (Semester End Examinations) of the preceding 
semester. 

A student can apply for on-line registration, only after obtaining the ‘written approval’ 
from faculty advisor/mentor, which should be submitted to the college academic section 
through the Head of the Department. A copy of it shall be retained with the Head of the 
Department, faculty advisor/ mentor and the student. 

A student shall register for all the courses offered in a semester as specified in the course 
structure. 

Course  options  exercised  through  on-line  registration  are  final  and  cannot  be  changed; 
further,  alternative  choices  also  will  not  be  considered.  However,  if  the  course  that  has 
already been listed for registration by the Head of the Department in a semester could not 
be offered due to any inevitable or unexpected reasons, then the student shall be allowed 
to have alternative choice either for a new course (subject to offering of such a course), or 
for  another  existing  course.  Such  alternative  arrangements  will  be  made  by  the  Head of 
the  Department,  with  due  notification  and  time-framed  schedule,  within  a  week,  but 
before the commencement of class- work of the semester. 

The  Head  of  the  Department  /  Course  Coordinator  should  review  vacant  slots  in  the 
timetable  of  each  section once  in  every  week or  fortnight. The vacant  slots  in  the  time-
table may be allocated to the subject teachers who could not take classes in proportion to 
the number of weeks completed from the commencement of the semester. 

Two faculty members may be allocated for the tutorial session of Mathematics-1 course 
for better interaction/practice and to minimise the failures in the subject. 

Professional  Electives:  The  students  have  to  choose  six  Professional  Electives  (PE-I  to 
PE- VI) from the six baskets of professional electives given. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)9 
 
 
 
Students  have  the  flexibility to  choose  from the list  of  professional electives  offered  by 
the Institute or opt to register for the equivalent Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) 
as listed from time to time by the Institution. 

5.9 

Open Electives: Students have to choose three Open Electives (OE-I, II & III) from three 
baskets  of  Open  Electives  given  by  other  than  the  parent  department.  However,  the 
student  can  opt  for  an  Open  Elective  course  offered  by  his  parent  department,  if  the 
student  has  not  registered  and  not  studied  that  course  so  far.  Similarly,  Open  Elective 
courses being studied should not match with any courses of the forthcoming semesters. 

5.10 

Provision for Early Registration of MOOCs: 

For a professional elective in a semester, students are allowed to register for an equivalent 
MOOCs  course  listed  from  time  to  time  by  the  Institute  one  semester  in  advance.  For 
example,  a  Professional  Elective  of  III  Year  II  Sem  shall  be  allowed  to  register  under 
MOOCs platform in III year I Sem. 

The  credits  earned  in  one  semester  in  advance  can  be  submitted  in  the  subsequent 
semester for the assessment. 

The students who have registered in advance in an equivalent MOOCs course and fail to secure 
any  pass  grade  in  the  MOOCs  course,  can  register  for  the  regular  course  offered  in  the 

following semester of their course structure. 

5.11  Conversion of Marks Secured in MOOCs into Grades: Marks secured in the internal 
and  external  evaluations  of  a  MOOCs  course  shall  be  scaled  to  40  and  60  marks 
respectively. The sum of these two components shall be considered as the total marks out 
of  100.  The  corresponding  grade  shall  then  be  determined  as  per  the  marks-to-grades 
conversion rules specified in Clause 10.3. 

5.12  MOOCs  are  allowed  only  for  professional  elective  courses  and  for  a  few  Minors  & 

Honors courses 

5.13  Additional learning resources: 

Students  are  encouraged  to  acquire  additional  course-related  knowledge  by  auditing 
learning  resources  from  MOOCs  platforms  for  each  course  offered  in  their  course 
structure. These additional courses are not meant for earning credits but are intended to 
enhance  knowledge.  The  institute  shall  notify  such  courses  from  time  to  time  through 
their  portals  for  the  benefit  of  students.  They  are  categorized  into  three  types: 
prerequisite,  reinforcement,  and  aspirational.  Prerequisite  courses  help  students  gain 
familiarity  and  provide  sufficient  background.  Reinforcement  courses  aim  to  offer 
different  perspectives  on  learning,  while  aspirational  courses  focus  on  next-level  or 
advanced learning. 

6.0 

6.1 

Rules to offer Elective courses 

An  elective  course  may  be  offered  to  the  students,  only  if  a  minimum  of  25%  of  class 
strength opts for it. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)10 
 
 
 
 
6.2 

6.3 

7.0 

7.1 

7.2 

7.3 

7.4 

7.5 

7.6 

7.7 

8.0 

8.1 

8.2 

Same elective course for different sections may be offered by different faculty members. 
The selection of elective course by students will be based on first come first serve and / or 
CGPA criterion. 

If the number of students registrations are more than the strength of one section, then it is 
choice of  the  concerned  Department  to  offer  the  same  course  for more  than  one  section 
based on the resources available in the department. 

Attendance requirements: 

A  student  shall  be  eligible  to  appear  for  the  semester-end  examinations,  if  the  student 
acquires a minimum of 75% of aggregate attendance of all the courses for that semester. 

Shortage of attendance in aggregate upto 10% (securing 65% and above but below 75%) 
in  each  semester  may  be  condoned  by  the  college  academic  committee  on  genuine  and 
valid grounds, based on the student’s representation with supporting evidence. 

A stipulated fee shall be payable for condoning of shortage of attendance as notified in the 
respective college websites. 

Two  hours  of  attendance  for  each  theory  course  shall  be  considered,  if  the  student 
appears for the mid-term examination of that course. 

Shortage of attendance below 65% in aggregate shall in no case be condoned. 

Students whose shortage of attendance is not condoned in any semester, are not eligible to 
take their semester-end examinations of that semester. They get detained and will not be 
promoted to the next semester. Their registration for that semester shall stand cancelled, 
including  internal  marks.  They  may  seek  re-registration  for  that  semester  in  the  next 
academic year. 

A student fulfilling the attendance requirement in the present semester shall not be eligible 
for readmission into the same semester. 

Criteria for Earning of Credits in a Course 

A  student  shall  be  deemed  to  have  satisfied  the  academic  requirements  and  earned  the 
credits allotted to each course, if the student secures not less than 35% (21 marks out of 60 
marks) in the semester end examinations (SEE), and a minimum of 40%  (40 marks out of 
100 marks) in the sum total of the CIE (Continuous Internal Evaluation) and SEE (Semester 
End Examination) taken together; in terms of letter grades, this implies securing ‘C’ grade 
or above in that course. 

A  student  shall  be  deemed  to  have  satisfied  the  academic  requirements  and  earned  the 
credits  allotted  to  Field  Based  Research  Project  /  Industry  Oriented  Mini  Project  / 
Internship,  if  the  student  secures  not  less  than  40%  marks  (i.e.  40  out  of  100  allotted 
marks) in each of them. The student is deemed to have failed, if he/she (i) does not submit 
a  report  on  Field-Based  Research  Project/Industry  Oriented  Mini  Project/  Internship,  or 
(ii) not make a presentation of the same before the evaluation committee as per schedule, 
or (iii) secures less than 40% marks in Field-Based Research Project / Industry Oriented 
Mini Project / Internship evaluations. 

8.3 

A  student  eligible  to  appear  in  the  semester-end  examination  for  any  course,  is  absent 
from  it  or  failed  (thereby  failing  to  secure  ‘C’  grade  or  above)  may  re-appear  for  that 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)11 
 
 
 
course  in  the  supplementary  examination  as  and  when  it  is  conducted.  In  such  cases, 
internal marks assessed in continuous internal evaluation (CIE) earlier for that course will 
be  carried  over,  and  added  to  the  marks  obtained  in  the  SEE  supplementary/make-up 
examination. If the student secures sufficient marks for passing, ‘C’ grade or above shall 
be awarded as specified in clause 10.3. 

9.0 

9.1 

Distribution of Marks and Evaluation 

The performance of a student in every course (including Value Added Courses and Skill 
Development Courses, Laboratory/Practical and Project Work) will be evaluated for 100 
marks  each,  with  40  marks  allotted  for  CIE  (Continuous  Internal  Evaluation)  and  60 
marks for SEE (Semester End-Examination), irrespective of the credits allocated. 

9.2 

Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) 

9.2.1  Theory Courses: 

For  theory  courses,  during  a  semester,  there  shall  be  two  mid-term  examinations.  Each 
Mid- Term examination consists of two parts i) Part – A for 10 marks, ii) Part – B for 20 
marks, totaling to 30 marks. Total duration of mid-term examination is two hours. 

1.  Mid Term Examination for 30 marks: 

a.  Part - A : Objective/quiz paper for 10 marks. 
b.  Part - B : Descriptive paper for 20 marks. 

The  objective/quiz  paper  is  set  with  multiple  choice,  fill-in  the  blanks  and  match  the 
following type of questions for a total of 10 marks. 

The descriptive paper shall contain 6 questions out of which, the student has to answer 4 
questions,  each  carrying  5  marks.  The  average  of  the  two  Mid  Term  Examinations 
shall be taken as the final marks for Mid Term Examination (for 30 marks). 

While  the  first  mid-term  examination  shall  be  conducted  on  50%  of  the  syllabus,  the 
second mid-term examination shall be conducted on the remaining 50% of the syllabus. 
Questions will be drawn from the mid-term exam syllabus, ensuring uniform coverage of 
all topics. 

The remaining 10 marks of Continuous Internal Evaluation are distributed as follows: 

2.  Five  marks  for  the  assignment.  Student  shall  submit  two  assignments  and  the 
average of 2 Assignments each for 5 marks shall be taken. The first assignment 
should  be  submitted  before  the  conduct  of  the  first  mid-term  examination,  and 
the second assignment should be submitted before the conduct of the second mid-
term examination. 

3.  Five marks for the Viva-Voce/PPT/Poster Presentation/ Case Study on a topic in 
the  concerned  subject.  This  assessment  shall  be  completed  before  II  Mid-Term 
Examination. The concerned course faculty shall schedule these sessions in their 
semester plan approved by the Head  of the department. 

9.2.2  Engineering Drawing and Computer Aided Drafting Course: 

For this course, 20 marks will be allocated for day-to-day assessments conducted during 
drawing  practice  sessions,  and  another  20  marks  will  be  allocated  for  the  mid-term 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)12 
 
 
 
 
examination.  In  the  mid-term  examination,  students  shall  attempt  any  four  out  of  six 
given  questions.  The  first  mid-term  exam  will  be  conducted  in  the  conventional  mode 
using  a  drawing  board,  while  the  second  mid-term  exam  will  be  conducted  using  a 
drawing board/ CAD package. 

9.3 

A Computer-Based Test (CBT) in each course is available for students who either: 

1.  missed one of the two mid-term examinations due to unavoidable circumstances, or 
2.  attended both mid-term examinations but wish to improve their internal marks. 

The CBT will be conducted at the end of the semester and will carry a total of 30 marks. 
The  marks  obtained  in  the  CBT  will  be  considered  equivalent  to  those  obtained  in  one 
mid-term examination. Zero marks will be awarded to students who are absent from the 
mid-term examination. The average of the best two scores from the three exams (the two 
mid-term exams and the CBT), combined with other internal assessment components, will 
constitute the Continuous Internal Improvement (CII) marks for that specific course. CBT 
exams shall be conducted by the Institute. 

9.4 

Semester End Examination for theory courses 

9.4.1  Theory Courses: 

The  Semester  End  Examinations  (SEE),  for  theory  courses,  will  be  conducted  for  60 
marks consisting of two parts viz. i) Part- A for 10 marks and ii) Part - B for 50 marks. 

•  Part-A  is  compulsory,  consists  of  five  short  answer  questions  covering  all  units  of 

syllabus; each question carries two marks. 

•  Part-B  consists  of  five  questions  carrying  10  marks  each.  There  shall  be  two 
questions  asked  in  the  question  paper  from  each  unit  with  either-or  choice  and  the 
student  should  answer  either  of  the  two  questions.  The  student  shall  answer  one 
question from each of five units. 

9.4.2  Engineering Drawing and Computer Aided Drafting Course: 

Question  paper  consists  of  five  questions  carrying  12  marks  each.  There  shall  be  two 
questions asked in the question paper from each unit with either-or choice and the student 
should answer  either  of  the  two  questions.  The  student  shall  answer  one  question  from 
each of five units. 
There shall be no section with short answer questions. 

9.4.3  Duration of SEE: 

The duration of Semester End Examination of theory and drawing courses is 3 hours. 

9.5 

Semester End Examination for Practical Courses 

For  practical  courses  there  shall  be  a  Continuous  Internal  Evaluation  (CIE)  during  the 
semester  for  40  marks  and  semester-end  examination  for  60  marks.  The  breakup  of  the 
continuous internal evaluation for 40 marks is as follows: 

1.  10 marks for a write-up on day-to-day experiments in the laboratory (in terms of aim, 

components/procedure, expected outcome). 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  10  marks  for  viva-voce  (or)  tutorial  (or)  case  study  (or)  application  (or)  poster 

presentation of the course concerned. 

3.  10 marks for the internal practical examination conducted by the laboratory teacher 

concerned. 

4.  The  remaining  10  marks  are  for  Laboratory  Report/Project  and  Presentation,  which 
consists  of  the  Design  (or)  Software  /  Hardware  Model  Presentation  (or)  App 
Development (or) Prototype submission which shall be evaluated after completion of 
laboratory course and before semester end practical examination. 

The Semester End Examination for practical courses shall be conducted with an external 
examiner  and  the  laboratory  course  teacher.  The  external  examiner  shall  be  appointed 
from the outside institutions. 

In  the  Semester  End  Examination  for  practical  courses  held  for  3  hours,  rubrics  of 
evaluation for 60 marks is as given below: 

1.  10 marks for write-up 
2.  15 marks for experiment/program 
3.  15 marks for evaluation of results 
4.  10  marks  for  presentation  on  another  experiment/program 

laboratory course and 

5.  10 marks for viva-voce on concerned laboratory course. 

in 

the  same 

For  any  change  of  experiment,  5 marks  will  be  deducted  from  the  total  of 60  marks.  If 
second time change of experiment is requested, another five marks will be deducted from 
the 60 marks. No third change will be permitted. 

9.6 

Field-based Research Project: 

There  shall  be  a  Field-based  Research  Project  in  the  intervening  summer  between  II-II 
and  III-  I  Semesters.  Students  will  register  for  this  project  immediately  after  II  Year  II 
Semester examinations and pursue it during summer vacation. The Field-based Research 
Project shall be submitted in a report form and presented before the committee in III year I 
semester.  It  shall  be  evaluated  for  100  external  marks.  The  evaluation  committee  shall 
consist of an External Examiner, Head of the Department, Supervisor of the Project and a 
Senior  Faculty  Member  of  the  department.  There  shall  be  no  internal  marks  for  Field-
based  Research  Project.  Student  shall have  to earn 40%  marks, i.e  40 marks  out  of  100 
marks.  The  student  is  deemed  to  have  failed,  if  he  (i)  does  not  submit  a  report  on  the 
Project,  or  (ii)  does  not  make  a  presentation  of  the  same  before  the  committee  as  per 
schedule, or (iii) secures less than 40% marks in this course. 

9.7 

Internship/Industry Oriented Mini Project: 

There  shall  be  an  Internship/Industry  Oriented  Mini  Project  in  collaboration  with  an 
industry from their specialization. Students shall register for this project immediately after 
III  Year  II  Semester  Examinations  and  pursue  it  during  summer  vacation.  Internship 
should be carried out at an organization (or) Industry. The Industry Oriented Mini Project 
shall  be  submitted  in  a  report  form  and  presented  before  the  committee  in  IV  Year  I 
Semester  before  the  semester  end  examination.  It  shall  be  evaluated  for  100  external 
marks.  The  committee  consists  of  an  External  Examiner,  Head  of  the  Department, 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)14 
 
 
 
Supervisor  of  the  Industry  Oriented  Mini  Project/Internship,  and  a  Senior  Faculty 
Member of the Department. 

9.7.1  For  evaluating  industry-oriented  mini-projects,  it  is  preferable  to  appoint  an  external 
examiner from the industry, ideally from one of the organizations/ industries with which 
the institute has established / proposing to establish collaborations. 

9.8 

UG Project Work: 

9.8.1  The UG project work shall be initiated at the beginning of the IV Year II Semester and the 
duration  of  the  project  work  is  one  semester.  The  student  must  present  in  consultation 
with  his/her  supervisor,  the  title,  objective and plan  of  action  of  his/her  Project  work to 
the  departmental  committee  for  approval  within  two  weeks  from  the  commencement  of 
IV Year II Semester. Only after obtaining the approval of the departmental committee, the 
student can start his/her project work. 

9.8.2  Student has to submit project work report at the end of IV Year II Semester. The project 
work shall be evaluated for 100 marks. Out of which 40 marks and 60 marks are allocated 
for CIE and External Evaluation respectively. 

9.8.3  For  internal  evaluation,  the  departmental  committee  consisting  of  Head  of  the 
Department,  Project  Supervisor  and  a  Senior  Faculty  Member  shall  evaluate  the  project 
work for 40 marks. The distribution of marks is as follows: 

•  Objective(s) of the work done  - 05 Marks 
- 15 Marks 
•  Methodology adopted 
- 15 Marks 
•  Results and Discussions 
- 05 Marks 
•  Conclusions and Outcomes 
- 40 Marks 
                                                                   Total 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)15 
 
 
9.8.4  The  External  Evaluation  shall  be  conducted  by  the  external  examiner  for  a  total  of  60 
marks.  It  shall  comprise  the  presentation  of  the  work,  communication  skills,  and  viva-
voce, with a weightage of 20 marks, 15 marks, and 25 marks respectively. 
The  topics  for  main  Project  shall  be  different  from  the  topic  of  Industry  Oriented  Mini 
Project/ Internship/SDC. The student is deemed to have failed, if he (i) does not submit a 
report on the Project, or (ii) does not make a presentation of the same before the External 
Examiner as per schedule, or (iii) secures less than 40% marks in the sum total of the CIE 
and SEE taken together. 

9.8.5  For conducting viva-voce exam of project work, Institute appoints an external examiner. 
The  external  examiner  may  be  selected  from  the  list  of  experts  submitted  by  the  BoS 
concerned. 

9.8.6  A  student  who  has  failed,  may  re-appear  once  for  the  above  evaluation,  when  it  is 
scheduled again; if student fails in such ‘one re-appearance’ evaluation also, he/she has to 
appear for the same in the next subsequent year, as and when it is scheduled. 

9.9 

Skill Development Courses: 

Four Skill Development Courses are included in the Curriculum in II-I, II-II, III-I and III-
II  semesters.  Each  Skill  Development  Course  carries  one  credit.  The  evaluation  pattern 
will  be  same  as  that  of  a  laboratory  course  including  the  internal  and  external 
assessments. 

The objective of Skill Courses is to develop the cognitive skills as well as the psycho-
motor skills. 

9.10  Value-Added Courses: 

The  evaluation  of  Value-Added  Courses  shall  be  similar  to  that  of  theory  courses. 
However, the  scheduling  of  these  mid-term  exams  and  semester-end  examinations  may 
not be combined with main-stream examinations. One hour /45 mins proctored mid-term 
examination shall be conducted in the regular class by the same subject teacher.  It should 
not impact the conduct of other classes on that day. 
The scheduling of the semester-end  examinations shall also be intimated by the Institute 
time to time. 

10.0  Grading Procedure 

10.1  Absolute grading system is followed for awarding the grades to each course. 

10.2  Grades  will  be  awarded  to  indicate  the  performance  of  students  in  each  Theory, 
Laboratory,  Industry-Oriented  Mini  Project/  Internship/  Skill  development  course  and 
Project  Work.  Based  on  the  percentage  of  marks  obtained  (Continuous  Internal 
Evaluation  plus  Semester  End 

Examination, both taken together) as specified in clause 8 above, a letter grade shall be 
given as explained in the following clause. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)16 
 
 
 
 
10.3 

To  measure  the  performance  of  a  student,  a  10-point  grading  system  is  followed.  The 
mapping between the percentage of marks secured and the corresponding letter grade is as 
follows: 

Range of % of Marks Secured in a Course  Letter Grade 
Greater than or equal to 90 
80 and less than 90 
70 and less than 80 
60 and less than 70 
50 and less than 60 
40 and less than 50 
Below 40 
Absent 

O (Outstanding) 
A+ (Excellent) 
A (Very Good) 
B+ (Good) 
B (Average) 
C (Pass) 
F (FAIL) 
Ab 

Grade Points (GP) 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
0 
0 

10.4  A  student  shall  be  declared  successful  or  ‘passed’  in  a  semester,  if  he/she  secures  ‘C’ 

grade or above in every course (ie GP ≥ 5) 

10.5  A student who has obtained an ‘F’ grade in any course shall be deemed to have ‘failed’ 
and  is  required  to  re-appear  for  a  supplementary  exam  as  and  when  conducted.  In  such 
cases, internal marks in those courses will remain the same as those obtained earlier. 

10.6 

10.7 

To a student who has not appeared for an examination in any course, ‘Ab’ grade will be 
allocated  in  that  course,  and  he/she  is  deemed  to  have  ‘Failed’.  Such  student  will  be 
required  to  re-appear  for  supplementary/make-up  exam  as  and  when  conducted.  The 
internal marks in those courses will remain the same as those obtained earlier. 

The students earn a Grade Point (G) in each course, on the basis of letter grade secured in 
that  course.  Every  student  who  passes  a  course  will  receive  grade  point  GP     5  (‘C’ 
grade or above). 

10.8 

The  ‘Credit  Points’  (C)  are  computed  by  multiplying  the  grade  point  with  credits  for  a 
given course. 

Credit Points (C) = Grade Point (G) x Credits 

10.9 

The  Semester  Grade  Point  Average  (SGPA)  is  calculated  only  when  all  the  courses 
offered in a semester are cleared by a student. It is calculated by dividing the sum of credit 
points  (ΣCG)  secured  from  all  courses  registered  in  a  semester,  by  the  total  number  of 
credits registered during that semester. SGPA is rounded off to two decimal places. SGPA 
for each semester is thus computed as 

= 

where ‘i’ is the course indicator index (considering all courses in a semester), ‘N’ is the 
no.  of  courses  registered  for  the  semester  (as  listed  under  the  course  structure  of  the 
branch),  Ci  is  the  no.  of  credits  allotted  to  the  ith  course,  and  Gi  represents  the  grade 
points corresponding to the letter grade awarded for that ith  course. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)17 
 
 
 
 
 
10.10 

If a student earns  more than 160 credits, only the courses corresponding  to the best 160 
credits shall be considered for the computation of CGPA of B.Tech. degree. 

10.11  The  Cumulative  Grade  Point  Average  (CGPA)  is  a  measure  of  the  overall  cumulative 
performance  of  a  student  in  all  semesters  considered  for  registration.  The  CGPA  is  the 
ratio of the total credit points secured by a student for the courses correspond to best 160 
credits  out  of  all  registered  courses  in  all  semesters,  and  the  total  number  of  credits 
correspond to those selected courses. CGPA is rounded off to two decimal places. CGPA 
is thus computed at the end of each semester, from the I year II semester onwards, as per 
the formula 

  where  ‘M’  is  the  total  no.  of  courses  corresponding  to  the  best  160  credits  from  the  courses 
registered in all eight semesters, ‘j’ is the course indicator index (takes into account all courses 
from 1 to 8 semesters), Cj  is the no. of credits allotted to the jth course, and Gj  represents the 
grade points (GP) corresponding to the letter grade awarded for that jth  course. 

Illustration of the Calculation of SGPA: 

Course 

Course 1 
Course 2 
Course 3 
Course 4 
Course 5 
Course 6 
Course 7 
Course 8 

Credits 
4 
3 
3 
3 
3 
2 
1 
1 

20 

Letter Grade 
A 
O 
C 
B 
A 
A+ 
C 
O 

Grade Points 
8 
10 
5 
6 
8 
9 
5 
10 

Credit Points 
4 x 8    =  32 
3 x 10 =  30 
3 x 5    =  15 
3 x 6    =  18 
3 x 8    =  24 
2 x 9    =  18 
1 x 5    =  5 
1 x 10 =  10 
152 

SGPA = 152/20 = 7.6 

The CGPA of the entire B.Tech. programme shall be calculated considering the best 160 
credits earned by the student. 

10.12  For merit ranking or comparison purposes or for any other listing, only the ‘rounded off’ 

values of the CGPAs will be used. 

10.13  SGPA  of  a  semester  will  be  mentioned  in  the  semester  Memorandum  of  Grades  if  all 
courses  of  that  semester  are  cleared  in  first  attempt.  Otherwise,  the  SGPA  shall  be 
mentioned only on the Memorandum of Grades in which sitting he passed his last exam in 
that semester. 

11.0  Declaration of Results and issue of Grade Memo 

11.1  While  declaring  the  results,  the  web-version  should  display  the  marks  earned  by  the 
students with the internal and external marks break-up. However, in the memorandum of 
grades, the marks need not be shown. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.2  After  the  completion  of  each  semester,  a  certificate  of  memorandum  of  grades  shall  be 
issued to all the registered students, indicating the letter grades and credits earned. It will 
show the details of the courses registered (course code, course title, no. of credits), letter 
grade and credits earned. 

12.0  Withholding of Results 

12.1 

If the student has not paid the fees to the institution at any stage, or has dues pending due 
to  any  reason  whatsoever,  or  if  any  case  of  indiscipline  is  pending,  the  result  of  the 
student  may  be  withheld,  and the  student  will  not be allowed to  go  into the  next  higher 
semester. The award or issue of the degree may also be withheld in such cases. 

13.0 

Supplementary Examinations: 

13.1  At  the  end  of  each  semester,  along  with  regular  semester  examinations,  supplementary 

examinations shall be conducted for the students who have back-log subjects. 

13.2  Advanced supplementary examinations in IV Year II Semester courses may be conducted 
for  those  who  failed  in  any  course  offered  in  IV  Year  II  Semester.  It  may  enable  the 
students to receive their B.Tech. provisional certificate at an early date. Advanced supply 
examinations may be scheduled within one month period after the declaration of the final 
semester results. 

There  shall  be  no  supplementary  examination  in  the  successive  semester.  The  students 
who could not secure any pass grade in advance supplementary examinations have to wait 
for regular series examination of next batch to write their back-log examination. 

14.0 

Promotion Rules 

S.No.  Promotion 
1 

2 

First year first semester to first 
year second semester 
First  year  second  semester  to 
Second year first semester 

3. 

Second  year  first  semester  to 
Second year second semester 

Conditions to be Fulfilled 
Regular  course  of  study  of  first  year  first 
semester and fulfilment of attendance requirement. 

of 

and 

(i)  Regular  course  of  study  of  first  year  second 
attendance 
fulfilment 
semester 
requirement 
(ii)  Must  have  secured  at  least  25%  of  the  total 
credits  up  to  first  year  second  semester  from  all 
the 
supplementary 
examinations,  whether  the  student  takes  those 
examinations  or not. 
Regular  course  of  study  of  second  year  first 
semester and fulfilment of attendance requirement. 

relevant 

regular 

and 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 

5 

6 

7 

Second  year  second  semester 
to Third year first semester 

Third year first semester to Third 
year second semester 
Third year second semester to 
Fourth year first semester 
Fourth  year  first  semester  to 
Fourth year second semester 

of 

and 

(i)  Regular course of study of second year second 
semester 
attendance 
fulfilment 
requirement. 
(ii)  Must  have  secured  at  least  25%  of  the  total 
credits  up  to  second  year  second  semester  from 
all 
supplementary examinations, whether the student 
takes those examinations or not. 
Regular  course  of  study  of  third  year  first 
semester and fulfilment of attendance requirement. 

relevant 

regular 

the 

  and     

Regular  course  of  study  of  third  year  second 
semester and fulfilment of attendance requirement. 
Regular  course  of  study  of  fourth  year  first 
semester and fulfilment of attendance requirement. 

15.0  Re-admission after Detention 

i)  A student detained due to lack of credits, shall be promoted to the next academic year 
only after acquiring the required number of credits. 

ii) A student detained due to shortage of attendance shall be admitted in the same semester 
in the successive academic years. 

iii)  When  a  student  is  readmitted  in  the  following  academic  years,  the  academic 
regulations  under  which  the  student  seeks  re-admission  shall  only  be  applicable  to  this 
student,  not  the  academic  regulations  in  which  he  got  admitted  in  his/her  first  year  of 
study. 

16.0  Credit Exemption 

A student (i) shall register for all courses covering 164 credits as specified and listed in 
the  course  structure  and  (ii)  earn  160  or  more  credits  to  successfully  complete  the 
undergraduate programme. 

•  Best  160  credits  shall  be  considered  for  CGPA  computation.  The  student  can  avail 
exemption  of  courses  totaling  up  to  4  credits  other  than  Professional  core  courses, 
Laboratory  Courses,  Seminars,  Project  Work  and  Field  Based  Research  Project  / 
Industry  Oriented  Mini  Project  /  Internship,  for  optional  drop  out  from  these  164 
credits registered; 

•  The semester grade point average (SGPA) of each semester shall be mentioned at the 
bottom of the grade card, when all the subjects in that semester have been passed by 
the student. 

•  Credits earned by the student in either a Minor or Honors program cannot be counted 

towards the required 160 credits for the award of the B.Tech. degree. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.0  Award of Degree 

17.1  A student who registers for all the courses specified in the course structure and secures the 
required number of 160 credits within 8 academic years from the date of commencement 
of  the  first  academic  year,  shall  be  declared  to  have  qualified  for  the  award  of  B.Tech. 
degree in the branch of Engineering selected at the time of admission. 

17.2  A student who qualifies for award of the degree as listed in item 17.1 shall be placed in 

the following classes. 

17.3  A  student  with  final  CGPA  (at  the  end  of  the  undergraduate  programme)  ≥  7.5,  and 

fulfilling the following conditions - shall be placed in ‘First Class with Distinction’: 

(i)  Should have passed all the courses in ‘First Appearance’. 

(ii)  Should  not  have  been  detained  or  prevented  from  writing  the  semester  end 
examinations in any semester due to shortage of attendance or any other reason. 

A student not fulfilling any of the above conditions with final CGPA ≥ 7.5 shall 

be placed in ‘First Class’. 

17.4  Students with final CGPA (at the end of the undergraduate  programme) ≥ 6.5 but  < 7.5 

shall be placed in ‘First Class’. 

17.5  Students with final CGPA (at the end of the undergraduate programme)  ≥ 5.5 but < 6.5, 

shall be placed in ‘Second Class’. 

17.6  All other students who qualify for the award of the degree (as per item 17.1), with final 
CGPA (at the end of the undergraduate programme) ≥  5.00 but < 5.5, shall be placed in 
‘pass class’. 

17.7  Grace Marks 

Grace marks shall be given to those students who complete the course work of four year 
B.  Tech.  degree,  not  secured  pass  grade  in  not  more  than  three  subjects  and  adding  a 
specified grace marks enables the student to pass the subject(s) as well as gets eligibility 
to receive the provisional degree certificate. 

Grace  marks  for  students  admitted  under  the  R-25  Academic  Regulations  should  not 
exceed  0.15%  of the  total  maximum  marks  in all  eight  semesters  (excluding  the  marks 
allocated for value added courses and skill development courses). 

18.0  Award of Gold Medals 

18.1  Students fulfilling the conditions listed under item 17.3 alone will be eligible for award of 

‘Gold Medal’. 

18.2 

If  more  than  one  student  secures  the  same  highest  CGPA,  then  the  following  tie 
resolution criteria, in the same order of preference shall be followed for selecting the Gold 
Medal winner, until the tie is resolved: 1) more number of times secured highest SGPAs, ii) 
more  number  of  O  and  A+  grades  in  that  order  and  iii)  highest  SGPA  in  the  order  of  first 
semester to eight semester. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)21 
 
 
19.0  Conversion of CGPA into equivalent Percentage of Marks 

19.1  The  following  formula  shall  be  used  for  the  conversion  of  CGPA  into  equivalent 

marks, whenever it is necessary 

Percentage (%) of Marks = (Final CGPA – 0.5) x 10 

20.0  Honours and Minor Degree Programs 

Honours and Minor Degree programs will be available in all branches of B.Tech. degree. 
Minor  Degree  programs  will  commence  from  II  Year  II  Semester  and  continue  till  IV 
Year I semester and Honours Degree programs will commence from III Year I Semester 
and continue till IV Year II semester. 

21.0  Multiple Entry Multiple Exit Scheme (MEME) 

21.1  Exit Option after Second Year: 

Students enrolled in the 4-Year B.Tech. program are permitted to exit the program after 
successful completion of the second year (B.Tech. II Year II Semester). The students who 
desire to exit after the II year shall formally inform the exit plan one semester in advance 
i.e.  at  the  commencement  of  II  Year  II  Semester  itself.  Such  students  need  to  fulfil  the 
additional requirements as specified in Clause 21.2 described below. 

Upon fulfilling the requirements like earning all the credits up to II Year II Semester and 
successfully  completing  the  additional  requirements,  the  students  will  be  awarded  a  2-
Year Undergraduate (UG) Diploma in the concerned engineering branch. 

21.2  Additional Requirements for Diploma Award 

To qualify for the diploma under the exit option, students must also complete 2 additional 
credits through one of the following Institute/University-prescribed pathways: 

Work-based Vocational Course: 

Participation  in  a  practical,  hands-on  vocational  training  program  relevant  to  the 
engineering field, typically conducted during the summer term. 

Internship/Apprenticeship: 

Completion  of  a  minimum  8-week  internship  or  apprenticeship  in  their  related  field  to 
gain practical industry exposure. 

In  addition,  students  must  clear  any  associated  course(s)  and  submit  the  internship/ 
apprenticeship report as per the University’s schedule and guidelines. 

21.3  Re-entry into the B.Tech. Program 

Students who have exited the B.Tech. program with a 2-Year UG Diploma may apply for 
re- entry into the Third Year (Fifth Semester) of the B.Tech. program. Re-entry is subject 
to the following conditions: 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)22 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The student must surrender the awarded UG Diploma Certificate. 

•  Students who wish to rejoin in III Year must join the same B.Tech. program and same 
college  from  which  the  student  exited.  Before  rejoining,  students  should  check  for 
continuation of the same branch at the college. If the specific branch is closed in that 
particular  college,  then  student  should  consult  the  University  for  the  possible 
alternative solutions. 

•  Re-registered  students  will  be  governed  by  the  academic  regulations  in  effect  at  the 

time of re-entry, regardless of the original regulations under which they were admitted. 

• 

If  a  student  opts  to  continue  his/her  studies  without  a  gap  after  being  awarded  the 
diploma,  they  must  register  for  the  third-year  courses  before  the  commencement  of 
classwork. 

21.4  Break in Study and Maximum Duration 

Students  are  allowed  to  take  a  break  of  up  to  four  years  after  completion  of  II  Year  II 
Semester with prior Institution/University permission through the Head of the Institution. 

Re-entry  after  such  a  break  is  subject  to  the  condition  that  the  student  completes  all 
academic requirements within twice the duration of the program (i.e., within 8 years for a 
4-year B.Tech. program). 

22.0  Transitory Regulations for the students re-admitted in R-25 Regulations: 

22.1  Transitory regulations are applicable to the students detained due to shortage of attendance 
as  well  as  detained  due  to  the  shortage  of  credits  and  seek  permission  to  re-join  the 
B.Tech. programme, where R-25 regulations are in force. 

22.2  A  student  detained  due  to  shortage  of  attendance  and  re-admitted  in  R-25  regulations: 
Such students shall be permitted to join the same semester, but in R-25 Regulations. 

22.3  A  student  detained  due  to  shortage  of credits  and  re-admitted in  R-25  regulations:  Such 
students shall be promoted to the next semester in R-25 regulations, only after acquiring 
the  required  number  of  credits  as  per  the  corresponding  regulations  of  his/her  previous 
semester. 

22.4  A student who has failed in any course in a specific regulation has to pass those courses in 

the same regulations. 

22.5 

If a student is readmitted to  R-25 Regulations  and has any  course with 80%  of  syllabus 
common with his/her previous regulations, that particular course in R-25 Regulations will 
be  substituted  by  an  equivalent  course  of  R-22  regulations  by  the  University.  All  these 
details are summarized in a set of look-up Table; one set for each B. Tech. branch. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22.6  Look Up Table of equivalence courses 

22.6.1  A lookup table will be provided for the benefit of students. This lookup table will include 
all  the  courses  to  be  registered  by  students  who  have  been  re-admitted  under  the  R-25 
Academic Regulations from the R-22 Academic Regulations. Separate lookup tables will 
be provided for the following categories of students: 

1.  Students re-admitted into the I Year II Semester of the R-25 Regulations 
2.  Students re-admitted into the II Year I Semester of the R-25 Regulations 
3.  Students re-admitted into the II Year II Semester of the R-25 Regulations 
4.  Students re-admitted into the III Year I Semester of the R-25 Regulations 
5.  Students re-admitted into the III Year II Semester of the R-25 Regulations 
6.  Students re-admitted into the IV Year I Semester of the R-25 Regulations 
7.  Students  re-admitted  into  the  IV  Year  II  Semester  of  the  R-25 
Regulations  For  every  B.Tech.  branch  there  shall  be  separate  set  of  seven 
lookup tables. 

22.6.2  Applicability of Look-up Table: The above look-up table shall be applicable for students 
who  seek readmission  from  R-22  regulations to  R-25  regulation and are  going  to be  re-
admitted in the same R25 regulations of the Institute. 

22.6.3  These  look-Up  Tables  are  not  applicable  for  the  students  who  seek  transfer  from  other 
Universities  /Institutions  (Autonomous/  Non  Autonomous)  to  our  institution.  Such 
students should consult the Institution/University regarding equivalent courses. 

22.7  The R-25 Academic Regulations are applicable to a student from the year of re-admission. 
However,  the  student  is  required  to  complete  the  study  of  B.Tech.  degree  within  the 
stipulated period of eight academic years from the year of first admission. 

23.0 

Student Transfers 

23.1  There shall be no branch transfers after the completion of admission process. 

23.2  The students seeking transfer to the Institution from other Universities/institutions have 
to pass the failed subjects which are equivalent to the subjects of our Institution, and also 
pass  the  subjects  of  the  Institution  which  the  students  have  not  studied  at  the  earlier 
institution. 

23.3  The  transferred  students  from  other  Universities/Institutions  to  our  institution,  shall  be 
given a chance to write CBTs for getting CIE component in the equivalent course(s) as 
per the clearance letter issued by the Institution. 

24.0  Value Added Courses 
24.1  Faculty  members  who  have  received  a  certificate  in  Innovation  and  Entrepreneurship  / 
Entrepreneurship from a reputed foundation/organization may be given preference to teach 
the  "Innovation  and  Entrepreneurship"  course.  This  certificate  course  should  include  an 
assessment. Total training duration (online or physical), excluding assessment, should be 
at  least  30  hours.  Faculty  members  from  all  disciplines  with  innovative  mindset  and 
aptitude to co-create an entrepreneurial ecosystem are eligible to teach this subject. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24.2  Faculty members who have credited a course on Intellectual Property Rights in their UG 
or  PG  programme  or  credited  an  equivalent  course  in  MOOCs  platform/  reputed 
foundation/ organization in which assessment is a part, may be given preference to teach 
the elective course on Intellectual Property Rights. 

24.3  To ensure quality delivery and standardization in teaching the Indian Knowledge System 
(IKS)  and  other  value-added  courses,  the  following  guidelines  must  be  adhered  to:  i) 
faculty  members  must  undergo  a  Faculty  Development  Program  (FDP)  organized  by 
UGC-MMTTC  (Malaviya  Mission  Teacher  Training  Centre),  or  Any  other  recognized 
and  competent  institution/organization  offering  similar  certified  programs,  ii)  the  total 
instructional duration of the FDP should be a around 32 hours or more, III) all sessions in 
the  FDP  must  be conducted  by  certified and  qualified  resource  persons  with  recognized 
expertise in the respective domains, 
iv) A formal assessment component must be included as part of the FDP. 

25.0  Mapping with the Sustainable Development Goals 

All the courses specified in the course structure of every programme are mapped with the 
one or more sustainable development goals. 
Scope 

26.0 

26.1  The academic regulations should be read as a whole, for the purpose of any interpretation. 

26.2 

In case of any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of the above rules, the decision of 
the Head of the Institution is final. 

26.3  The  Institution/University  may  change  or  amend  the  academic  regulations,  course 
structure or syllabi at any time, and the changes or amendments made shall be applicable 
to all students with effect from the dates notified by the Institution/University authorities. 

26.4  Where the words “he”, “him”, “his”, occur in the regulations, they include “she”, “her”, “hers”. 
27.0  Guidelines for Scribe to appear for examinations 

The Candidates who desire to take the Scribe to follow the steps mentioned here under 

27.1  Medical Certificate issued by a Civil Surgeon working in a Government Hospital. 

27.2  Photo of the student / candidate highlighting the inability to appear for the examination. 

27.3  Committee consisting of Head of the Institution, Controller of Examinations and Head 
of  the  department  will  scrutiny  the  candidate  previous  academic  performance  and 
regularity. 

27.4  After the approval of the committee, it is required to submit the following documents of scribe 

27.5  The Particulars of proposed scribe i.e., name, address, qualifications and present occupation. 

The scribe should be of intermediate qualification with arts subjects only. 

27.6  A letter from the scribe stating that he /she is willing to act as scribe. 

27.7  A copy of the certificate of scribe’s qualification along with recent photograph duly attested 

by the Controller of Examination. 

27.8  A letter from the Controller of Examination stating that he/she personally verified and satisfied 
regarding qualification of the scribe as per norms and that he/she will  provide a separate room 
and invigilator for all the examinations of the candidate. 

***** 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)25 
 
NALLA NARASIMHA REDDY EDUCATION SOCIETY’S GROUP OF INSTITUTIONS 

(UGC AUTONOMOUS INSTITUTION ) 
Chowdariguda(V),  Korremula  ‘X’  Road,  Ghatkesar(M),  Medchal-Malkajgiri(D),  Hyderabad.  – 
500088, T.S 

ACADEMIC  REGULATIONS  FOR  B.TECH.  (LATERAL  ENTRY  SCHEME)  FROM  THE 
AY 2026-27 

Eligibility for the award of B.Tech. Degree (LES) 

1.  The  LES  students  after  securing  admission  shall  pursue  a  course  of  study  for  not  less 

than three academic years and not more than six academic years. 

2.  The  student  shall  register  for  123/124  credits  and  secure  120  credits  with  CGPA  ≥  5 
from II year to IV-year B.Tech. programme (LES) for the award of B.Tech. degree. 

3.  The  student  can  avail  exemption  of  courses  totaling  up  to  3/4  credits  other  than 
Professional core courses, Laboratory Courses, Seminars, Project Work and Field Based 
Research Project / Industry Oriented Mini Project / Internship, for optional drop out. 

4.  The  students,  who  fail  to  fulfil  the  requirement  for  the  award  of  the  degree  in  six 

academic years from the year of admission, shall forfeit their seat in B.Tech. 

5.  The attendance requirements of B.Tech. (Regular) shall be applicable to B.Tech. (LES). 

6.  Promotion rule 

S. No 

Promotion 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

Second  year  first  semester  to 
Second year second semester 

Second  year  second  semester  to 
Third year first semester 

Third  year  first  semester  to  Third 
year second semester 

Third  year  second  semester  to 
Fourth year first semester 

Fourth year first semester to Fourth 
year second semester 

Conditions to be fulfilled 
Regular course of study of second year first 
semester  and 
requirement. 

fulfilment  of  attendance 

and 

semester 

fulfilment 

(i)  Regular course of study of second year 
second 
of 
attendance requirement. 
(ii)  Must have secured at least 25% of the 
total  credits  up  to  second  year  second 
semester  from  all  the  relevant  regular  and 
supplementary examinations, whether the 
student takes those examinations or not. 

fulfilment  of  attendance 

Regular course of study of third year first 
semester  and 
requirement. 
Regular course of study of third year second 
semester and fulfilment of attendance 
requirement. 
Regular course of study of fourth year first 
semester  and 
requirement. 

fulfilment  of  attendance 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)26  
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  All  the  other  regulations  as  applicable  to  B.Tech.  4-year  degree  course  (Regular) 

will hold good for B. Tech. (Lateral Entry Scheme). 

8.  LES  students  are  not  permitted  to  exit  the  B.Tech.  program  after  completion  of 

second year  (B.Tech. II Year II Semester). 

III. VISION & MISSION 

VISION: 

To be a premier institution ensuring globally competent and ethically strong professionals 

MISSION: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

To  provide  higher  education  by  refining  the  traditional  methods  of  teaching  to  make 
globally competent professionals 
To impart quality  education by  providing state of  the art infrastructure and innovative 
research facilities 
To  practice  and  promote  high  standards  of  professional  ethics,  transparency  and 
accountability 

HUMANITIES & SCIENCES 

VISION: 
To  foster  the  excellence  of  analytical,  critical  and  speculative  approaches  of  the  physical 
sciences  and  English  so  as  to  provide  a  firm  foundation  for  intellectual  and  creative 
experiences as well as to enrich students’ lives enabling them to meet the needs of the society. 

MISSION: 
The  department  plays  a  pivotal  role  in  preparing  the  students  to  face  the  challenges  at  the 
global  level  by  imparting  intensive  training  in  English  communication  skills,  ethics, 
Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry and  Environmental studies. It offers a platform to  exhibit 
their  hobbies  such  as  literature,  photography,  etc,  providing  respective  clubs  and  related 
faculty in the college. 

IV.  QUALITY POLICY 
We practice excellence in our teaching and research, nurturing education with Human Values. 
We emphasize quality education by adopting  latest teaching  methodologies through  state of 
the  art  infrastructural  facilities.  NNR  Education  Society’s  Group  of  Institutions  believes  in 
self evaluation and continuous improvement. 

V.  GENERAL INFORMATION 
Nalla  Narasimha  Reddy  Education  Society’s  Integrated  campus  was  established  in  2009  to 
educate,  enrich  and  empower  the  youth.  NNRG  provides  the  best  technical  education  by 
maintaining  the  standards  and  quality  of  engineering  education.  The  endeavour  of  the 
institution  stretches  beyond  just  offering  a  degree  towards  building  a  good  character  of  the 
young  professionals  in  shaping  them  to  serve  the  nation  and  humanity.  It  imparts 
technological competence and social consciousness in the new undergraduates. 

VI.  LOCATION & ACCESS 
The  campus  is  located  amidst  sprawling  and  lush  green  surroundings  with  an  amicable 
atmosphere  for  learning. NNRG’s  integrated  campus  is  about  17  kms  from  Secunderabad 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
& Koti and  10 Kms from Uppal Ring road on Warangal Highway. The campus is accessible 
by public transport system and it takes a 15 minute drive from Uppal to reach the campus. The 
state  RTC  runs  city  buses  frequently  to  Ghatkesar,  Korremula  and  Narapally.  The  Institute 
provides college buses in various routes for faculty, staff and students and also runs TSRTC 
Bus specially plying from NNRG Institution to Uppal X Road. 

PG - M.Tech 

Embedded 
&VLSI 

Systems 

VII.  COURSES@NNRG 

SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING 

UG - B.Tech 

Computer Science & Engineering (CSE)  
Computer Science & Engineering (Data Science) 
Computer Science & Engineering 
Intelligence  &  Machine  Learning) 
(Artificial 
Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE)  
Civil Engineering(CE) 

SCHOOL OF PHARMACY 
•  B. Pharmacy 
SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT SCIENCES 
•  MBA 

VIII. CENTRAL FACILITIES 

1. 

Infrastructure 
The  Campus  main  building  includes the  academic  and the  administrative  blocks  with 
well-resourced  laboratories  in  various  departments.  The  classrooms  are  spacious  and  well 
ventilated. The campus has a large playground, basket ball and football courts. The college has a 
well maintained canteen.  RO purifying water plants, hygienic washrooms and other amenities. 

2. 

Internet Facility 
The  campus  systems  are  connected  within  intranet  sharing  facility  to  a  central 
server. As part of the research and practical work, students can access the internet facility in 
all working hours. It provides access to e-books, study materials, previous question papers, 
teaching  schedules,  internal  marks,  attendance  reports,  daily  circulars  and  many.  A 
productive  e  learning  atmosphere  is  promoted      through  the  college  Local  Area  Network 
(LAN), internet facility with 600 Mbps band bandwidth. 

3. 

Auditorium 
NNRG  has  a  well-structured  auditorium  with  a  seating  capacity  of  600  with  latest 
provisions.  It  is  spacious  and  provides  the  right  ambience  for  presentations,  interactive 
sessions, as well as national and international conferences. 

4. 

Sports & Games 
NNRG believes that Physical fitness plays an important role in developing the overall 
personality of  a  student.  The  institute  endeavors  to  foster  overall  development  of  students 
both in  academic  and  sports  fields  and  includes  sports  and  games  as  an  integral  part  of  the 
curriculum.  The  college  has  extensive  sports  infrastructure  and  environment  to  encourage 
students to excel in them. The students are trained to improve physical fitness, mental ability, 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)28  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
team  spirit  and  discipline.  NNRG  has  indoor  sports  and  outdoor  fields  for  athletics,  cricket, 
badminton and basketball courts. Our students have participated in annual Inter-College, Inter-
University and National level Sports Festivals and won laurels. The sports department is led 
by a full time Physical Director and competent staff. 

5.  Cafeteria 

The institute has an ideal cafeteria that takes utmost care in providing hygienic and 
quality food at subsidized rates. The authorities take personal care in maintaining the quality 
of food served in the canteen.  The canteen is amidst large and vibrant area, with a beautiful 
view of greenery all around. The canteen is most popular place among students on campus 
for food, student bonding and informal discussions. 

Pure & Hygienic Drinking Water 

6. 
NNRG campus has installed RO water purifying systems for the students and staff. Purified 
drinking water is supplied to all the departments/blocks. Water coolers are available in each 
building/block. 

7. 

Girls Hostel 
An  exclusive  girls’  hostel  is  built  on  a  2  acre  campus.  The  hostel  provides  a 
homely    atmosphere for the students who come from city outskirts and distant places. It 
provides  a  secure  environment  for  them  to  excel  in  studies.  24  hours  security  and 
emergency  medical  services  and  also  an  ambulance  service  is  exclusively  provided  for 
the  benefit  of  the  students.  The  students  develop  a  sense  of  responsibility  and  learn  to 
manage their lives independently staying in hostels. 

8. 

Transport 
The institution provides transport to students and staff from all parts of the city to the 

campus. The buses are comfortable and safe in the hands of well trained  drivers. 

9. 

Seminar Halls 
The college has spacious, furnished and well equipped seminar halls with audio visual 
facility,  one  for  each  department  which  can  accommodate  about  300  students,  where 
departmental activities like Student Seminars, PowerPoint Presentations, Group Discussions, 
and Mock Interviews, etc. are conducted. 

10. 

Center for online exams 
NNRESGI  maintains  International  standards 

the  best  computer 
technology. This made  NNRESGI the hub for online exams like GATE, CAT, RRB, IBPS, 
Govt. Entrance exams, TCS, Infosys, Deemed university entrance exams like SRM, Amrutha, 
CMC, etc. 

in  obtaining 

11.  Dispensary 

The institution has its own dispensary for medical supplies and treatment. A senior 

doctor’s medical advice is always available to all the students and staff. 

12. 

Stationery Store 
A  stationery  store  is  available  in  the  college  campus  from  where  students  can 

purchase all stationery items for their day to day requirement at affordable prices. 

13. 

ATM 
An  ATM  center  of  HDFC  bank  is  opened  in  the  college  premises  for  smooth  and 

hassle- free money transactions. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)29  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IX   CAMPUS OVERVIEW 

Picturesque 12- Acre Campus 
3,00,000 Sft built-up area 

➢ 
➢ 
➢  Well  Qualified  and  Experienced 

faculty 
State-of- the art Laboratories 

level  safety  standards  at 

➢ 
➢  High 

➢  Research & Development Centre 
Training and Placement Cell 
➢ 
Industry-Institute Interaction Cell 
➢ 
➢  Center for Human Excellence 
➢ 

Development 

Entrepreneurship 
Cell 

Laboratories 

➢  Advanced 

English 
Communication Skills Laboratories 

➢  Department - wise Seminar Halls 
➢ 

connected  High 

1200  LAN 
Configuration Computers 

➢  Central 

Seminar 

Hall  & 

➢ 

Auditorium 
Internet 
Bandwidth 

with 

600  Mbps 

➢  Well  stacked,  spacious 

library 
with  a  number  of  volumes  and  
National & International Journals 

➢  Digital library 

Incubation Centre 

Sports and Games Department 

Professional Societies & Clubs 

➢  CPCSEA approved animal house 
➢ 
➢  Robotics Centre 
➢ 
➢  WiFi enabled Campus 
➢ 
➢  NCC & NSS Units 
➢  Cafeteria 
➢  Girls Hostel 
➢  Dispensary 
Stationery stores  
➢ 
➢  Transport facility 
➢  Medicinal Garden 

X. 

GUIDELINES, RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE CAMPUS 

A. 

1. 

GENERAL 

Dress Code 
Students should wear formal clothes. 

2. 

Ragging and Indiscipline 
Ragging  is  strictly  prohibited  on  the  campus.  Any  student  found  guilty  would  be 
severely punished. All senior students of the college are aware of the consequences of ragging. 
Students  who  misbehave  with  staff  or  other  students  will  also  be  penalized.  If  students  are 
involved  in  smoking,  liquor  consumption  or  in  fights,  they  will  be  punished  as  per  the 
Institute norms. 

3. 

College Timings 
The  college  commences  at  09.00AM  and  ends  at  04:00  PM  with  45  minutes  lunch 
break 12:15 PM to 1:00 PM. Students must strictly adhere to  the  timings of the college. They 
should  not  linger  inthe  college  premises  or  outside  the  classrooms  when  the  classes  are  in 
progress. 

4. 

Bonafide Certificates 
The Academic branch issues bona fide certificates for bus  passes  and other purposes 

to the college students. 

5. 

Bus Passes 
College  bus  ID-cards  will  be 

issued  by 

the 

transport 

in-charge.  NNRG’s 

Administrative Officer will attest TSRTC bus pass applications. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)30  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 

Notices/Notice Boards 
Students are expected to read the College, Department and the  Exam  Branch  notice 
boards regularly. The Main notice board is available at the entrance of the Engineering block. 

7. 

Original Certificates 
Students’ Original certificates have to be deposited with the college and the same will 

be returned after the completion of the course. 

8. 

Memorandum of Marks 
The  memorandum  of  marks  of  a  particular  year/semester  will  be  issued  by  the 

Examination branch. 

9. 

Intimation of Change of Address 
Students  are  required  to  intimate  the  change  in  Address  or  Phone  number 

immediately if any, to the academic branch through their Class Mentor or HOD. 

10.  Wearing ID cards 

College Identity card is mandatory for all  the  students  as  long  as  they  are  in  the 
college premises. They are not allowed to attend the classes or labs or write the examinations 
without  their  identity  cards. 

11. 

Obtaining Gate Passes 
Students found bunking classes or leaving the college  without prior  permission  will 
not be permitted to attend classes on the next day until proper explanation  is provided by the 
student  or  the  parent/guardian  to  the  Head  of  the  Department  concerned.  In  case  of 
emergency, student can approach the class in-charge for a gate pass.  The Class in-charge  can 
issue  the  gate  pass after receiving the consent of the parents and approval of the  HOD. 

12. 

Ban on Usage of Mobile Phones 
To  prevent  distractions  caused  by  mobile  phones,  students  are  not  permitted  to  use 
mobiles  in  the  college  campus.  If  any  student  is  found  using  a  cell  phone  in  the  campus, 
disciplinary action will be taken. 

Absenteeism 

13. 
No student is supposed to be absent from the class without prior permission of the HOD. If a 
student  is  absent  for  three  days  continuously  without  reason/prior  permission,  disciplinary 
action  will  be taken.  The  student must  submit a  leave application in  advance  to the  HOD  if 
they want to go on leave for a day and for a valid reason. 

14. 

SMS service 
If a student is absent, an SMS will be sent to the parent’s mobile (registered mobile) by 
afternoon on  the  same  day.   Parents  and  students are  advised  to  download  the  ―UOLO  app 
for  any  important  communication  from  the  institute/department  and  requested  to  respond 
appropriately. 

15. 

Electronic Items for Music and Entertainment 
No  musical gadgets are  allowed  in  the  college campus. If any student is found using 

such items, the items will be seized and disciplinary action will be initiated. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)31  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. 

Discipline in Buses 
The students must commute in the allocated buses. In case of emergency, they will be 
permitted to change route with the permission of the authority/bus In-charge. If any student’s 
behavior  is  found  objectionable  to  the  staff  or  other  students,  disciplinary  action  will  be 
taken. No student is permitted to travel without the bus ID card. 

17. 

Punctuality 
Students have to be punctual to their classes. In case of delay to the class, the student 
may be permitted to attend the class with the permission of their respective Department Head. 
If the student is a regular late comer, appropriate disciplinary action will be taken. 

Leave/Sick Leave 

18. 
If  the  absence  is  on  medical  grounds,  students  are  required  to  notify  their  HOD  for  being 
absent and submit the medical certificate the next day.  Disciplinary action  will  be initiated 
if any student is  absent without information to the  Class In-charge/HOD for more than three 
days. 

Assignments/Lab Records  Submission 

19. 
Students  are  supposed  to  submit  their  Lab  records  and  Assignments  given  by  the  faculty 
concerned and get them corrected and graded in time. Late submission is not acceptable. 

RAGGING: 
➢ 
➢ 
➢ 
➢ 
➢ 
➢ 
➢ 
➢ 

Ragging is uncivilized besides being an offence. 
Students must not involve in ragging. 
Ragging is prohibited as per Act 26 of T.S. Legislative Assembly -1997. 
Ragging entails heavy fine and/or imprisonment. 
Ragging invokes suspension and dismissal from the college. 
Outsiders are prohibited from entering the college and hostel without  permission. 
Girl students must be in their hostel rooms by 6:00pm. 
Suspended  students  are  debarred  from  entering  the  campus  except  when  required  to 
attend enquiry and to submit an explanation. 

➢ 

➢  Whenever  any  student  complains  about  ragging,  that  complaint  shall  be  enquired  into 
or an  enquiry will  be  made  into  the  same  forthwith  and  if the complaint is  found  true, 
the  student(s)  complained  against  shall  be  suspended  for  a  period  as  may  be  deemed 
necessary. 
Every student has to  give  an  undertaking to  the  college  that  he/she  will not indulge  in 
ragging. 
Every  student’s  parent/guardian  is  also  required  to  give  an  undertaking  that  they  will 
ensure that their son/daughter/ward will not indulge in ragging and also comply with all 
the guidelines, rules and regulations concerning prevention of ragging. 
All students should carry identity cards with them both inside and outside the  college. 
An Anti Ragging committee is constituted with senior faculty to carry out its  activities. 

➢ 
➢ 

➢ 

Prohibition of Ragging 
➢ 
➢ 

Ragging within or outside the Educational Institution is prohibited. 
Ragging means  doing an  act  which  causes  or is  likely to  cause  insult  or annoyance  or 
fear or  apprehension  or  threat  or  intimidation  or  outrage  of  modesty  or  injury  to  a 
student. 
The punishment at different levels is mentioned below. 

➢ 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)32  
 
 
 
 
 
 
S.No. 

Nature of Ragging 

Punishment 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

Teasing, 
humiliating 

embarrassing 

and 

Imprisonment  up  to  6  months  or 
fine upto Rs.1,000/- 

Assaulting or using criminal force  or 
criminal intimidation 

Imprisonment up  to  1  Year or fine 
up to Rs.2000/- or both. 

Wrongly  restraining  or  confining  or 
causing hurt 

Imprisonment up to 2 years or fine 
up to Rs.5000/- or both. 

Causing  grievous  hurt  kidnapping  or 
raping  or 
committing  unnatural 
offence 

Causing death or abetting suicide 

Imprisonment  up  to  5  years  and 
fine up to Rs.10,000/- 

Imprisonment  up  to  10  years  and 
fine upto Rs.50,000/- 

Note: 
➢  A student convicted of any of the above offences will be dismissed from the  college. 
➢  A student imprisoned  for more  than  six months for any of the  above offences will not 

➢ 

➢ 

B. 

be admitted in any other college. 
If  a  student  commits  suicide  due  to  or  in  consequence  of  ragging,  the  person  who 
committed such ragging shall be deemed to have abetted such suicide. 
The full text of Act 26 is placed in the college library. 

Examinations: 
Students  are  advised  to  refer  to  the  copy  of  regulations  (R22)  issued  by  the 

university/JNTUH website to be aware of the rules and regulations. 

C.  Malpractice: 

Students  must  not 
examinations. 

indulge 

in  any  malpractice 

in 

the 

Internal/External 

Malpractice cases are dealt with as per the rules/guidelines of JNTU Hyderabad. 

D. 
➢ 

➢ 
➢ 

➢ 

Laboratory Guidelines: 

Students  are  expected  to  be  punctual  and  regular  to  the  lab  classes  and  follow  the 
lab dress code. 
They are expected to carry out all the experiments prescribed by the  University. 
They will not be permitted to attend the end practical examinations unless they carry out 
the minimum number of experiments prescribed by the University. 
They  are  required  to  attend  the  lab  fully  prepared,  with  a  clear  understanding  of  the 
concept of the theory underlying the experiment and other experimental  details  with  a 
plan about how to carry out the experiment after referring to the lab manual. 

➢  Observation notebooks should be  neatly  maintained.  Experiments  must  be  recorded 

only  in the books approved by the departments/college. 

➢  Observation notebook must be shown  to the  faculty In-charge of the  lab  and signed by 

the teacher at the end of the experiment/exercise. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
➢  Records must be submitted as per the schedule prescribed by the faculty In-charge of the 

➢ 

➢ 

➢ 

lab and must be certified before appearing for the end  examinations. 
Students  must  handover  the  equipment  to  the  technician  in  good  condition  before 
leaving the lab. 
Students must maintain utmost cleanliness in the lab. Breakages/damages of equipment 
have to be reported immediately to the lab in-charge. 
Students  are  advised  to  clear  all  dues  to  the  lab  before  taking  end  practical 
examinations to avoid complications at a later date. 
Laboratory session marks will be awarded on the basis of continuous  evaluation. 
Students must clear the work bench soon after the experiment is  over. 

➢ 
➢ 
➢  Waste  material,  if  any,  must  not  be  dropped  on  the  floor  of  the  laboratory.  Students 

➢ 

should use the waste material baskets kept for the purpose. 
Experiments  need  to  be  carried  out  following  all  the  instructions  meticulously  and 
observing all the precautions to avoid personal injuries and damage to  equipment. 

E. 

Undertaking from Students and Parents: 
Students, parents/guardians need to sign an undertaking in a prescribed form by the 
college  at  the  time  of  admission  process  that  they  shall  adhere  to  the  college  rules  and 
regulations.  Student  who  has  taken  admission  in  this  Institute  shall  be  deemed  to  have 
agreed  to  the  rules  and  regulations  of  the  Institute  as  given  in  the  handbook.  Change  of 
rules if any are to be en-corporated. 

F. 

Class Review Committee (CRC): 
The  Class  Review  Committee  is  constituted  for  each  class.  The  Class  In-charge 
nominates  three  students  (on  good,  average  &  below  average  basis)  from  each  section 
through the  HOD concerned  to  know the students’ response  about the class work. The CRC 
meets twice a month to  review the coverage of syllabus; progress of students; extra classes  to 
be  arranged; and resolves students’ inhibitions and concerns in the problematic subjects. 

G. 

NOTIFICATION  OF 
PERFORMANCE TO PARENTS (LETTERS AND SMS) 
In order to ensure that the students are regular to college and to be aware of their 
safety, the institute sends text messages to parents when their child is absent from the class. 
This is done soon after the first hour so that parents are kept informed. 

ACADEMIC 

STUDENT 

ABSENCE 

AND 

Parents will be informed about their ward’s performance   t h r o u g h   SMS and their 
examination results posted from time to time. Parents can contact the HOD/Class In-charge 
as  and  when  required.  The  parents  are  expected  to  keep  in  touch  with  the  Class  In-
charge/HOD  and  monitor  the  academic  progress  of  their  ward.  If  the  student’s  attendance 
/academics is poor the parent should report immediately to review the situation.  

PARENT-TEACHER MEETING: 

One  of  the  most  important  features  of  NNRESGI  is  the  Parent-Teacher  Meeting 
conducted every semester for all the students. It aims at keeping the parents informed about 
their child’s academic and personal progress. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)34  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 

Girls’ Hostel: 

Rules of Admission: 
➢ 

Students  who  join  the  hostel  have  to  pay  the  prescribed  admission  fee  and  caution 
deposit at the time of admission. 

➢  Admission  shall  be  made  only  after  clearing  all  the  dues  to  the  college  and  previous 

➢ 

dues (if any) to the hostel. 
Separate  Identity  Card  will  be  issued  to  every  student  who  stays  in  the  college  hostel. 
the  college  will 
Suspension/dismissal  of  a  hostel 
automatically result in her suspension/dismissal from the  hostel. 

(residential)  student 

from 

Rules of Discipline 
➢ 
➢ 

Every inmate should return to the hostel by 5 p.m. 
Inmates are not allowed to leave the hostel. However, in exceptional circumstances they 
may  take  permission  from  the  warden  if  they  need  to  go  outside.  Leaving  the  hostel 
without the written permission of the warden shall be  considered  a violation  of hostel 
rules and will be dealt seriously. 

➢  All  inmates  must  carry  their  college  identity  cards  whenever  they  leave  the  hostel 
premises.  They  will  be  permitted  to  enter  the  hostel  only  after  producing  the  identity 
card at the hostel main gate. 
Parents/guardians of inmates will be allowed to visit their daughter/ward between 5 p.m. 
and 6 p.m. on all college working days  and  between  8  a.m.  and  6  p.m.  on  Sundays 
and  other  college  holidays.  Visitors  will  be  allowed  to  meet  the  inmates  after  making 
required  entries in the visitors’ register. 

➢ 

➢  No inmate will be permitted to go out with parents or local guardians without prior and 
proper authorization from the warden. Any request for permission from parents to take 
their daughter/ward out during college working hours will not be  granted. 

➢  No inmate will be permitted to go home except during vacation. 
➢  Hostel students are not allowed to stay in the hostel rooms during the college  timings. 
➢  Collective gatherings of any kind are prohibited within the hostel  premises. 
➢ 

Students living in the hostel should not indulge in any act or activity that is unacceptable 
or detrimental for the smooth and proper running of the hostel. 

➢  Residential students shall be held responsible for any damage caused to hostel property 

and the loss to the property shall be recovered from them. 

➢  Hostel  students  are  prohibited  from  using  any  electronic  or  power  consuming 

appliances without the permission of the warden. 

XI.  LIBRARY 

The Central Library has state-of-the-art facilities with books both in print and digital 
formats.  Spread  in  an  area  of  1500  Sqmts,  the  library  has  separate  lending,  reading, 
periodical  and  digital  library  sections.  The  fully  computerized  library  with  online  public 
access catalogue system contains over 35,000 volumes covering about 5,000 titles. Apart from 
textbooks,  it  has  a  large  number  of  reference  books,  national  and  international  journals, 
magazines  and  e-journals.  NNRG’s  central  library  has  institutional  membership  with 
DELNET,  National  Digital  Library  (NDL)  and  subscribed  IEEE,  ASME  &  J_Gate  e  – 
journals. Using the On-line Public Access Catalogue (OPAC) system, these can be accessed 
through intranet. The library has an Integrated Library Management Software Package called 
KOHA. 

The digital library is equipped with 32 latest systems and provides 50 Mbps internet 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)35  
 
 
 
 
Books 
CD/DVD’s 
Project Reports 
Print Journals 

connection exclusively. 
➢ 
➢ 
➢ 
➢ 
➢  Online Journals 
E-Books 
➢ 

LIBRARY FEATURES 

35,000 
500 
1500 
228 
600+ 
200+ 

➢ 
➢ 

➢ 

➢ 

➢ 

Book lending facility for students and staff 
The  library  has  subscription  to  228  International  and  National  print  journals  and 
around  600  e-journals  through  DELNET,  IEEE,  ASME,  Sage  and  J  -  Gate 
Publications. 
The reference section is a spacious enclave containing books on GATE, TOEFL, GRE, 
GPAT, General  Studies, encyclopedias,  dictionaries,  handbooks,  theses  and prescribed 
textbooks. 
The  Digital  Library  has  32  latest  version  systems  connected  through  LAN  and 
internet with  50  Mbps  band  width.  It  has  a  complete  collection  of  NPTEL  video 
lectures of IIT experts. 
Print and replication related stationery assistance is made available. 

The detailed Rules and Regulations of the Library are displayed on  the library  Notice Board. 

LIBRARY RULES AND REGULATIONS: 

➢  Members  /  Users  have  to  show  their  I.D  cards,  while  entering  the  Library  and  write  their  name, 

branch, Roll.no., time and sign the Register kept at the entrance. 

➢  Keep all the belongings at the entrance and take only one note book or loose sheets. 

➢  Files, bags, personal text books are not allowed inside the Library. 
➢  No  person  shall  write  on,  damage  or  make  any  mark  on  any  book,  journal  or  other  materials 

belonging to the Library. 

➢  The borrower shall be responsible for any damage or loss done to the Library documents borrowed 

by them and shall be required to replace such material or to pay the Triple cost thereof. 

➢  Before leaving  the Library, the reader  shall  leave on  the table any books/periodical,  which  he/she 

has  taken  for  reference.  The  same  shall  not  be  kept  back  on  the  shelf  by  the  reader  to  avoid 

misplacement.  

➢  Maintaining peace, silence in the Library is a must. 

➢  Loss of borrower books has to be reported immediately to the Librarian in writing. 
➢  Members should take care of their personal belongings. The Library is not responsible for any claim 

of loss of such articles. However, notice will be put if such articles found in the Library. 

➢  Cell phoning and consuming chocolates, etc., in the Library is strictly prohibited. 
➢  Any infringement of the norms and procedures will render the privilege of admission and borrowing 

reading materials from Library liable to suspension.  

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)36  
 
 
 
➢  Librarian reserves the right to recall at any time any book issued from the library. Librarian is also 

empowered to terminate the loan facility to any borrower, if he/she is found to infringe on library 

rules. 

➢  Library  books  are  issued  on  barcode  based  circulation  method,  please  produce  ID  cards  while 

borrowing books in the circulation counter.  

ISSUE OF BOOKS AND PERIODICALS: 

➢  Members  of  the  Library  may  borrow  three  books  for  MBA  and  Three  Books  for  B.Tech.  and  B. 

Pharmacy  at a time for a period of 15 days.   

➢  Books can be renewed only once at one given period provided there is no reservation for them. 
➢  Students who fail to return the books on or before due date will have to pay a penalty of Rs. 1/- per 

day from the due date. 

➢  Reference books and current journals are not for issue. They should be referred within the library 

only. 

 LIBRARY SERVICES: 

➢  Xerox is available with nominal charges. 

LIBRARY HOURS: 
➢  9.00 am to 5.00 pm 

XII.  TRAINING & PLACEMENT CELL 

The Training and Placement Cell is an  important link between students and  industry. 
We  at  NNRG  are  extremely  earnest  about  guiding  students  in  their  career  path  and 
development.  The  T&P  cell  inculcates  professional  attitude,  ethics,  and  overall  personality 
development  in  students. It  trains  them  in  team  building,  group  activities,  mock  interview 
sessions and leadership  abilities. 

We  provide  them  with  hands-on  training  by  providing  opportunities 

to  work, 
interact  with  entrepreneurs  through  lectures,  seminars,  and  group  discussions.  Distinctive 
focus  is  given  to  all-  round  development  through  confidence  building,  teamwork  abilities, 
and  exhaustive  English  communication  classes,  enhancing  their  employability  skills.  It 
prepares them for future challenges not only by enhancing their academic knowledge but by 
improving  qualities  such  as  taking  responsibilities,  communication,  decision  making  and 
interpersonal  skills.  The  Cell  trains  the  students  to  face  Interviews  through  live  recruitment 
situations.  It  instills  confidence  in  students  to  face  Interviews  and  come  out  with  flying 
colours. 

INCUBATION CENTRE: 

The  Incubation  centre  is  an  educational  project  which  provides  specially  designed 
incubators for colleges within the premises. Once a student registers for the course, collaboration 
ensures  the  overall  development  of  the  student  ranging  from  technical  training  to  personality 
development  which  widens  the  chances  for  the  students  to achieve  the  best in  the  competitive 
job market. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)37  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ROBOTICS DEVELOPMENT CENTRE: 

The  Robotics  centre  provides  students  a  platform  for  practical  application  of 
technology  and  learning  from  their  curriculum  by  participating  in  interestingly  designed 
problem solving tasks. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE: 

In order to encourage and motivate the faculty and students towards the research and 
development, the institute has established a separate R&D consultancy and External Funded 
Project  Cell.  Faculty  and  students  are  motivated  to  write  and  publish  research  articles  in 
various national and international journals. The R&D Committee also encourages  the  faculty 
and students to participate in various national and international  conferences,  workshops,  and 
seminars, etc. 

MAJOR RESEARCH FACILITIES: 
Cadence Tools 
DSP development boards on floating point TMS320C6713 
MATLAB 
ProE and ANSYA software tools 
CNC Milling Machine 
IOT Labs 
3D Printing 

a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
e. 
f. 
g. 

Training Programs and Facilities 

•  Aptitude and Verbal training sessions   
•  Coding Skills and Skill Development Programs  
•  Group discussion and Mock Interview sessions 
•  Personality Development Classes 
•  Soft skills and Employability skills workshops 
•  Mock written tests, Group 
•  Expert classes for GATE, GPAT, CAT, GMAT, TOEFL, GRE, IELTS etc. 
•  Industrial visits 
•  Advanced Communication Skills Lab 

discussions, interviews 

The  institute has  maintained  excellent  consistency  in  the  placement  of  the  students 
backed  by  exceptional  placement  infrastructure.  NNRESGI  has  been  consistently  improving 
its placement record by placing students in various reputed organizations. The Placement Cell 
at NNRESGI offers excellent guidance to the students by helping them gain necessary skills 
and practical knowledge of respective engineering domain. The  institute offers  several  on-
campus and off-campus activities to enhance the employability of the students. Some of our 
prominent recruiters are as follows 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)38  
 
 
 
 
XIII.  STUDENT ACTIVITIES 

NNRG’s ANNUAL TECHNICAL FESTS – Tech Samprathi is the annual technical 
festival  of  Nalla  Narasimha  Reddy  Education  Society’s  Group  of  Institutions.  It  is  a  Three-
Day National Level Student Symposium organized every year. This fest aims at providing a 
platform for the student community in and around our nation to develop and showcase their 
technical prowess. The emphasis at Tech Fest is on technology and its applications rather than 
just  on  the  engineering  know-how.  It  offers  a  conductive  stage  for  innovation  in  all  the 
students and also instills social and environmental responsibility among innovators creating  a 
platform  for effective collaboration between technical fests and nation building. 

Tech Samprathi has several distinguished events. 

Technical Event: Paper Presentation, Project Expo, Poster Presentation, App Expo and 
C  Terror.  Non-Technical  Event:  Short  Film,  Devinette  (quiz),  (riddle)  Caricature,  Model 
United  Nations.  This  year  Tech  Samprathi  also  hosted  intern  College  Cultural  and  Sports 
festival. 

Elite Gathering: 

ELITE  GATHERING  is  conducted  in  the  campus  every  fortnight.  During  the  club 
activity all the students and the staff of NNRESGI gather at the Assembly Point of the campus 
the activities are carefully planned to enhance the confidence of the students. It gives them a 
platform to practice and communicate without any inhibitions, and to impart industry-specific 
skills needed. 

The students who are selected through screening test deliver speeches on various topics 
given. Elite Gathering also conveys ongoing and upcoming events of the campus. The aim of 
conducting the assembly is to build confidence and interest in the students, to enable them to 
improve their communication skills and to develop public speaking skills along with thought 
process  culmination.  All  the  interested  students  exhibit  their  talent  irrespective  of  their 
academic performance.  

Center for Human Excellence: 

NNRESGI established a Center for Human Excellence in association with Vivekananda 
Institute of Human Excellence, Ramakrishna Math, Hyderabad. The center aims to impart the 
age-old  cherished  ideals,  values  and  the  words  of  Swami  Vivekananda,  life-building,  man-
making,  character-building,  education  and  training  in  order  to  build  a  stronger  nation.  The 
Programs conducted under this wing aim to instill faith in oneself and impart nobler values of 
life and life- giving strength, to raise individuals to higher levels of strength and felicity with 
spiritual, moral, ethical and eternal values of personality development and human excellence. 

Center  for  Human  Excellence  wing,  NNRESGI  conducts  programs  frequently  in  the 
campus. Eminent philosophical gurus as speakers and monks from VIHE invigorate the young 
minds. 

E-Plus Club: 

The  E-Plus  club  activity  is  an  initiative  of  The  Hindu  (newspaper)  group.  It  was 
inaugurated in 2012. The club aims at recognizing the importance of excellent communication 
skills,  sound  reasoning,  and  the  confidence  to  present  one’s  ideas  and  opinions  clearly.  E-
Plus  club  undertakes  group  activities  that  help  students  practice  English  through  debating 
skills, etc. No   tests or exams are involved, and students are encouraged to be adventurous, to 
experiment, and to actually use English instead of just learning about it. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)39 
 
 
 
 
 
Model United Nations (MUN) 

MUN  is  an  educational  recreation.  It  is  an  academic  activity  in  which  students  can 
learn  about  diplomacy,  international  relations,  and  the  United  Nations.  MUN  involves 
researching,  public  speaking,  debating,      and        writing      skills,        in        addition  to  critical 
thinking, teamwork, and leadership abilities. 

Photography Club: 

The Club –started its journey in the year 2012. It is a  student-led  club  focused  on 
bringing together students who share a passion for photography. Our purpose  is  to  explore 
various topics within photography and help our members learn and grow within their  art. 

Literary Club: 

The Literary club was established in 2012. It is a platform which instills fondness for 
language and enhances the students’ literary skills. The  club  provides  exciting  social  and 
cultural events for students such as creative writing, poetry recitation, mock press conferences, 
debates and elocution competitions to prune various forms of creative expressions of students. 

Yoga and Meditation Club: 

The Club was inaugurated on 21st June, 2016. The club aims at teaching and training 
the  students  in  techniques  for  resting  the  mind  and  attaining  a  state  of consciousness  that  is 
totally different from the normal waking state. It is the means for experiencing the center  of 
consciousness  within.  The  goal  of  the  Club  is  to  go  beyond  the  mind  and  experience  our 
essential  nature—which  is  described  as  peace,  happiness  and  bliss,  busting  the  stress 
caused by the highly competitive and stressful life and discovering mental and physical energy 
generators, wonderful abilities, peace and bliss hidden within ourselves. 

Mathematics Club: 

The Mathematics Club was inaugurated on 22 December 2015. Its objective is to train 
students with Mathematics logics through games like Sudoku, Rubric’s Cube, etc. It aims at 
making the students aware and helping them to learn about eminent  mathematicians and the 
history  of  Mathematics  through  paper  presentations.  The  club  creates  curiosity 
the 
students  to research  and  keep  themselves  updated  in  the  latest  mathematical  developments 
and applications in engineering. 

in 

C-Wizard Club: 

The event is organized to enhance the students’ knowledge of C Language. It is a quiz 

competition which elevates their computer skills. 

Science Club: 

The  Science  Club  organizes  model  exhibition  every  year  to  give  the  students  a 
platform to exhibit their knowledge and creativity and also encourage other students who do 
not  usually  participate  in  extra  and  co-curricular  activities.  It  is  a  strong  base  for  many 
students  to  launch  their  ideas  and  build  on  them carrying  it  forward  into  their  professional 
lives. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Art/Culture Club: 

Apart  from  the  regular  academic  curriculum  it  is  also  very  important  for  the 
students  to get involved in the various cultural and other activities which will bring out their 
hidden talents. Art and Culture Club established in the institute to encourage students to take 
part  in  these  activities.  These  activities  will  help  the  students  to  have  a  holistic  growth. 
Through this students are given an opportunity to collaborate with various  media, to exhibit 
the  inherent talents. Such programs give them the societal exposure  for public  interaction.  

Apart from the regular activities of various clubs, the institute  also  celebrates  many 
events  like  World  Environment  Day,  Engineers’  Day,  Ramanujan’s  birth  anniversary, 
National Science Day, World Water Day and World Photography Day. 

Women Cell: 

Our  Institute  provides  all  the  encouragement  to  women  to  excel  in  their  field  of 
expertise. A  separate  Cell  is  established  in  the  institution  to  provide  all  the  necessary 
encouragement  to  women  to  prove  their  capabilities  and  enhance  them.  The  objective  is  to 
develop  women  students  to  self-  motivated,  self-esteemed  and  self-disciplined  persons  who 
can  realize  their aspirations and achieve their dreams.  

Sexual Harassment Eradication Cell: 

The  institute  protects  the  students  and  staff  against  sexual  harassment  through  the 
Sexual Harassment Eradication Cell. This facility ensures security and confidence to everyone 

Freshers’ Day: 

The college organizes Freshers’ Day to welcome the Freshers. The Director, Dean and 
Department  Heads  grace  the  occasion.  Second  Year  students  organize  cultural  events  and 
conduct competitions for newly joined students. 

Annual Day: 

The College celebrates its Annual Day in  a grand  manner. The Director presents the 
annual report of the college for the academic year. Academic prizes are awarded to the toppers 
in JNTU exams. Prizes are distributed to the winners in different activities like sports, cultural 
activities, games, extra-curricular and co-curricular events. 

 Graduation Day: 

Sports Day: 

Sports  are  an  integral  part  of  a  student’s  life.  A  student  must  study  hard  to  be 
successful in examinations as well as play sports to enjoy good health and vigor of life.  The 
college organizes various outdoor events such  as  Cricket,  Football,  Volleyball, Throw ball, 
Tennikoit  and  Indoor  events  like  Chess,  Table  Tennis,  and  Caroms  on  Sports  Day  to  make 
students physically  and mentally strong. 

Alumni Day: 

An institution’s alumni are the reflection  of its past, representation  of its present and 
a link to its future. NNRG organizes Alumni Meet every year in the campus. The Alumni were 
invited  and  all  the  old  students  attend  the  gathering.  The  Alumni  Association  plays  an 
important role in informing the current students about opportunities available in the industry. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Student Seminars: 

The institute provides a great opportunity for the students to improve their skills within 
their  curriculum.  These  seminars  can  improve  students’  language  and  encourage  them  to 
prepare  and  present  seminars  in  all  the  subjects  in  the  schedule  given  in  the  Time  Table  by 
using LCD Projectors. 

Industrial Visits: 

NNRESGI  has  active  collaboration  with  several 

industries  enabling  regular 
industrial visits  for  all the  students  to  keep  them  abreast  with  industry  needs.  Some  of  the 
visits organized by the departments of the institute are- 

TCS 
Infosys 
Tech Mahindra 
Cloud4c 
RCL 
BHEL 
ECIL 

➢ 
➢ 
➢ 
➢ 
➢ 
➢ 
➢ 
➢  Astra Microwave Products Limited(AMPL) 
➢  NRSA-ISRO  
➢ 
➢ 
➢ 
➢  Nuclear Fuel Complex 
➢  Doordarshan Kendra 
Roshni Microsystems 
➢ 
➢  Mana TV 
➢  Diesel Loco Shed 
➢  Analogics Tech India Limited ….. 

Primary Radar and Sensory Radar Stations 
400KV Sub Station & many more 
RTTC-BSNL 

Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) 

NNRESGI  has  signed  MOUs  with  various  organizations  and  industries  to  train  the 
students and  to  upgrade  their technical  skills,  aptitude  and  overall  personality  development. 
This  also  helps  the  students  to  undergo  internships,  project  works  and  get  hands  –  on 
experience. 

MOU’s signed by NNRESGI: 

TASK 

➢ 
➢  Oracle Academy 
CYMAX 
➢ 
IMFS 
➢ 
➢  VMware 
➢  Vedic Systems 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CI smart connect technologies 

➢ 
➢  Astra Microwave Products Limited(AMPL) 
➢  Digital lync 

Smart Infe – Est 
Ram Tech 
EAISEB 

➢ 
➢ 
➢ 
➢  Medha 
➢  Axiom Energy  Solutions 
➢  Udai Engineering works 
➢  H – Bots 
SRCNC  Technology 
➢ 
➢  DEFW  Automations 
➢  GPR Electrical &Automation 
➢ 

Siliconus…… 

Professional Societies/Student Chapters 

Today’s industries  and  organizations which provide  career opportunities  look  for the 

following capabilities in students: 

1. 
2. 
3. 

Latest knowledge in their respective and related fields 
Communication skills, interactive skills and professional acquaintances 
Technical writing skills 
There are some societies related to each discipline/branch where students can become 
members,  to  achieve  the  capabilities  mentioned  above.  These  societies  organize  lectures, 
seminars,  workshops,  and  conferences  for  students  and  professionals.  They  also  publish 
magazines  and  journals  with  the  latest  discoveries,  which  they  send  to  the  students  at  their 
addresses as part of their membership package.  These  publications  are  monthly,  quarterly, 
yearly and annual. It is beneficial for students to become members of these  societies. 

S. No.  Branch 

Name of the Institution 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

CSE 

ECE 

EEE 

 ME 

 CE 

1. Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) 
2. Computer Society of India (CSI) 
3. Institute of  Electrical and Electronics Engineers  (IEEE) 
1. Institute of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE)  
2.Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) 
3.Institute of  Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 
1. Institute of  Electrical and Electronics Engineers  (IEEE)  
2.Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) 
3.Institute of  Engineers(IE) 
1. Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) 
2. American Society of  Mechanical Engineers(ASME) 

1. Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) 
2. Institute of  Engineers (IE) 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Free Medical Camp 

Programs as part of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) being conducted include: 
➢  Blood Donation Camp 
➢  Village Survey 
➢ 
➢  Hygiene & Cleanliness Awareness Program in nearby villages 
➢ 
➢ 
➢  Digital Literacy Program 

Save Water and Trees 
Tree Plantation 

NNRESGI-IEEE Women in Engineering: 

NNRESGI’s  IEEE  Women  in  Engineering  (WIE)  Group  is  the  largest  international 
professional  organization  dedicated  to  promoting  women  engineers  and  scientists.  The 
mission of  IEEE  WIE  is  to  facilitate  the  recruitment  and  retention  of  women  in  technical 
disciplines globally. Technical events, activities and conferences are conducted exclusively to 
enhance networking and to promote WIE’s motto. 

NCC Wing: 

NCC  at  NNRESGI  has  been  functioning  extremely  well  since  the  inception  of  the 
institute with the constant and motivating support from the management. All  the  cadets  have 
been selected based on their skills and ambition. The main aim of NCC is to cultivate Unity 
and  Discipline.  All  the  selected  cadets  are  trained  in  various  fields  and  they  actively 
participate in social service. 

NSS Wing: 

NSS  provides  an  excellent  opportunity  to  the  students  who  desire  to  serve  the 
community and to develop interpersonal relationships and skills. They conduct Swacch Bharat 
(Clean  &  Green),  tree  planting  campaigns,  blood  donation  camps  and  free  medical  camps. 
First  Aid  awareness  programmes  and  AIDS  awareness  programmes  are  also  organized. 
Engaging  in social activities to bridge the gap between the fortunate and the less fortunate and 
empowering them is the main focus of NSS activity. 

Entrepreneurship Development Cell (EDC): 

The  Entrepreneurship  Development  Cell  is  established  in  the  institution  to  organize 
Entrepreneurship Awareness Camps, Entrepreneurship Development Programmes and Faculty 
Development Programmes with the aim to encourage the  students  towards  Entrepreneurship 
and to encourage faculty to be better prepared to train the students. 

Industry Institute Interaction Cell (IIIC) & Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC) 

The Institute has placed emphasis on the cultivation of strong links with the industry to 
promote various industrial activities by the  faculty members and students. In  order to keep up 
with  the  growing  volume  of  industrial  liaison  activities  and  even  more  importantly,  to 
catalyze the further growth and development of interaction between the Institute and Industry, 
a  separate  cell  (Industry-Institute  Interaction  Cell  -  IIIC)  was  established  in  the  institution. 
IIIC coordinates with all the faculties of the University and Industry. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
XIV.  INDUCTION PROGRAMME: 

NNRESGI  organizes  induction  programme  for  the  fresher’s  and  their  parents  at  the 
beginning  of  the  first  semester  in  order  to  familiarize  them  with  the  fundamentals  of  the 
institute. The Induction programme includes lectures by  motivational  speakers,  writers,  soft 
skills  trainers,  yoga  and  meditation  trainers,  language  trainers  and  entrepreneurs  of 
international repute. Another interesting feature of the Induction programme is the literary and 
cultural competitions for students to exhibit their creativity. 

Induction is  an extremely significant part of our students’ lives here  at  NNRESGI as 
it  is a  major  junction  where  we  try  to  bridge  the  gap  between  school  and  college  input  on 
human  values  and  ethics  to  equip  them  to  be  globally  competent  and  ethically  strong 
professionals. 

XV.  CONTACT INFORMATION 

Website Address  : 
: 
E-mail 
: 
Phone Numbers 
: 
Fax 

http://www.nnrg.edu.in 
admin@nnrg.edu.in, director@nnrg.edu.in, tpo@nnrg.edu.in 
040-29705282, 9985311103, 9885294405, 8886531118 
040-29705284 

For any administrative issues and information, please contact: 

Designation 

Administrative Officer 

Name 
Mr. Anand Paul Meripo 

Mobile No. 

9704820333 

Admin In-charge for general problems and 
scholarship issues 

Mr. E. Sampath Reddy 

9885294408 

Admin In-charge for general problems 

Mr. N. Sreedhar Reddy 

9885294405 

Transport In-charge 

Mr. T. Sai Bharath Reddy 

9985311105 

Designation 

Name 

Mobile No. 

HOD, H&S 

HOD, Civil 

HOD, CSE 

HOD, ECE 

HOD, CSM 

HOD, CSD 

TPO 

Dr. E. Chandra Shekar 

9440605489 

Dr. G. Subba Rao 

9494413053 

Dr. K. Rameshwaraiah 

9553977907 

Dr. B. Ravi 

9030717749 

Dr. G. Sravan Kumar 

9441926953 

Mrs. V. Indrani 

9985385426 

Mr. K. Sreekanth 

9985930301 

I/C of Examinations 

Mr. P. S. Srinivasa Reddy 

9493014534 

* Contact in case of urgency only 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
XVI.  COMMITTEES 

The following Committees have been constituted to streamline the Administration of 
the  Institution. These  committees  plan and execute  various  activities  for  smooth  functioning 
and general development of the Institution. 

College Academic Committee 
➢ 
➢  Grievances And Redressal Committee 
➢  Anti Sexual Harassment Committee/Women Empowerment Cell 
➢  Anti Ragging Committee 
➢  Disciplinary Committee 
Time Table Committee 
➢ 
Placement Committee 
➢ 
➢  Alumni  Committee 
Library  Committee 
➢ 
➢  Arts/Cultural/Literary & Hobby Club Committee 
Sports & Games Committee 
➢ 
Transport Committee 
➢ 
Student Affairs Committee 
➢ 
➢  Quality Assurance Committee etc. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)46 
 
 
 
 
 
XVII. 

B.TECH. COURSE STRUCTURE 

Electronics and Communication Engineering 

I Year I Semester  

S. No. 

Course 
Code 

Course Title 

L 

T 

P  Credits 

1 
2 

3 

4 
5 
6 
7 

8 

9 

10 

Drafting 

25MA101BS  Matrices and Calculus 
25PH102BS  Advanced Engineering Physics  
25ME103ES  Engineering  Drawing  and 
25EN103HS  English for Skill Enhancement 
25EC104ES 
25CS105ES  Programming for Problem Solving 
25PH106BS  Advanced Engineering Physics Lab 
25CS107ES  Programming for Problem Solving Lab 

Introduction to  Electrical Engineering 

  Computer  Aided 

25EN108HS 

English Language and Communication Skills 
Laboratory 
Induction Program 
Total Credits 

3 
3 

2 

3 
2 
3 
0 

0 

0 

1 
0 

0 

0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

0 

0 
0 

2 

0 
0 
0 
2 
2 

2 

4 
3 

3 

3 
2 
3 
1 
1 

1 

16 

01 

08 

21 

I Year II Semester  

S. No. 

Course 
Code 

Course Title 

L 

T 

P  Credits 

1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 

25MA201BS 

Ordinary  Differential  Equations  and  Vector 
Calculus 
25CH202BS  Engineering Chemistry 
Python Programming  
25CS203ES 
25EE204ES  Network Analysis and Synthesis 
25CS205ES  Data Structures 
25CH206BS  Engineering Chemistry Lab 
25CS207ES  Data Structures Lab 
25EC208ES  Applied Python Programming Lab 

9 
10 

25ME209ES  Engineering Workshop 
25EC210ES 

Electrical Engineering Lab 
Total Credits 

3 

3 
3 
3 
3 
0 
0 
0 

0 

0 
15 

0 

0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

0 

0 
0 

0 

0 
0 
0 
0 
2 
2 
2 

2 

3 

3 
3 
3 
3 
1 
1 
1 

1 

2 
10 

1 
20 

L: T: P: C (Lecture periods: Tutorial periods: Practical periods: Credits) 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.Tech. in COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 
               Course Structure (R25 Regulations)  

I Year I Semester 

S. No.  Course Code 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

Course Title 

L  T  P  Credits 
3 
25MA101BS  Matrices and Calculus 
3 
Engineering Chemistry 
25CH102BS 
3 
English for Skill Enhancement 
25EN103HS 
3 
Electronic Devices and Circuits 
25EC104ES 
3 
Programming for Problem Solving 
25CS105ES 
0 
Engineering Chemistry Lab 
25CH106BS 
Programming for Problem Solving Lab 
25CS107ES 
0 
English Language and Communication Skills Lab  0 
25EN108HS 
0 
Engineering Workshop 
25ME109ES 
Induction Program 
Total Credits 

1  0 
0  0 
0  0 
0  0 
0  0 
0  2 
0  2 
0  2 
0  2 

4 
3 
3 
3 
3 
1 
1 
1 
1 

15  1  8 

20 

I Year II Semester 

S. No.  Course Code 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

25MA201BS 
25PH202BS 
25ME203ES 
25EE204ES 
25CS205ES 
25PH206BS 
25CS207ES 
25CS208ES 
25EE209ES 
25CS210ES 

Course Title 

L  T  P  Credits 
0 
0 
Ordinary Differential Equations and Vector Calculus  3 
0 
0 
Advanced Engineering Physics 
3 
2 
0 
Engineering Drawing and  Computer Aided Drafting  2 
0 
0 
3 
Basic Electrical Engineering 
0 
0 
3 
Data Structures 
2 
0 
0 
Advanced Engineering Physics Lab 
2 
0 
0 
Data Structures Lab 
2 
0 
0 
IT Workshop 
2 
0 
0 
Basic Electrical Engineering Lab 
0 
2 
0 
Python Programming Lab 
14  0  12 

3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
20 

Total Credits 

L: T: P: C (Lecture periods: Tutorial periods: Practical periods: Credits) 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.Tech. in CSE (ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE & MACHINE LEARNING) 

Course Structure (R25 Regulations) 

I Year I Semester 

S. No. 

Course 
Code 

Course Title 

L 

T 

P  Credits 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

25MA101BS  Matrices and Calculus 
25PH102BS 
25ME103ES 
25EE104ES 
25CS105ES 
25PH106BS 
25CS107ES 
25EE109ES 
25CS108ES 

Advanced Engineering Physics 
Engineering Drawing and  Computer Aided Drafting 
Basic Electrical Engineering 
Programming for Problem Solving 
Advanced Engineering Physics Lab 
Programming for Problem Solving Lab 
Basic Electrical Engineering Lab 
IT Workshop 
Induction Program 
Total Credits 

3 
3 
2 
3 
3 
0 
0 
0 
0 

14 

1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

1 

0 
0 
2 
0 
0 
2 
2 
2 
2 

4 
3 
3 
3 
3 
1 
1 
1 
1 

10 

20 

I Year II Semester 

S. No. 

Course 
Code 

Course Title 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

25MA201BS  Ordinary Differential Equations and Vector Calculus 
25CH202BS 
25EC204ES 
25CS205ES 
25EN203HS 
25CH206BS 
25CS207ES 
25EN208HS 
25ME209ES 
25CS210ES 

Engineering Chemistry 
Electronic Devices and Circuits 
Data Structures 
English for Skill Enhancement 
Engineering Chemistry Lab 
Data Structures Lab 
English Language and Communication Skills Lab 
Engineering Workshop 
Python Programming Lab 
Total Credits 

L 

3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
15 

T 

P  Credits 

0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
10 

3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
20 

L: T: P: C (Lecture periods: Tutorial periods: Practical periods: Credits) 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.Tech. in CSE (DATA SCIENCE) 
Course Structure (R25 Regulations) 

I Year I Semester 

S. No. 

Course 
Code 

Course Title 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

25MA101BS  Matrices and Calculus 
Engineering Chemistry 
25CH102BS 
Basic Electrical Engineering 
25EE104ES 
Electronic Devices and Circuits 
25EC104ES 
Programming for Problem Solving 
25CS105ES 
Engineering Chemistry Lab 
25CH106BS 
Programming for Problem Solving Lab 
25CS107ES 
Basic Electrical Engineering Lab 
25EE109ES 
Engineering Workshop 
25ME109ES 
Induction Program 
Total Credits 

L 

T 

P 

Credits 

3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
0 
0 
0 
0 

1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

15 

1 

0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 
2 
2 
2 

8 

4 
3 
3 
3 
3 
1 
1 
1 
1 

20 

I Year II Semester 

S. No. 

Course 
Code 

Course Title 

L 

T 

P  Credits 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

25MA201BS  Ordinary Differential Equations and Vector Calculus 

25PH202BS 

Advanced Engineering Physics 

25ME203ES 

Engineering Drawing and  Computer Aided Drafting 

25EN203HS 

English for Skill Enhancement 

25CS205ES 

Data Structures 

25PH206BS 
25CS207ES 
25CS208ES 
25EN208HS 
25CS210ES 

Advanced Engineering Physics Lab 
Data Structures Lab 
IT Workshop 
English Language and Communication Skills Lab 
Python Programming Lab 
Total Credits 

3 

3 

2 

3 

3 

0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
14 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

0 

0 

2 

0 

0 

2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
12 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
20 

L: T: P: C (Lecture periods: Tutorial periods: Practical periods: Credits) 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.Tech. in Civil Engineering 

COURSE STRUCTURE (R25 Regulations) 

I Year I Semester (25 Hours) 

S. No. 

Course 
Code 

Course Title 

L 

T 

P  Credits 

1 
2 

3 
4 
5 
6 

7 

8 
9 
10 

25MA101BS  Matrices and Calculus 
25PH102BS 
25ME103ES 
25EE105ES 
25CS105ES 
25PH106BS 

Advanced Engineering Physics 
Engineering Drawing and  Computer Aided Drafting 
Elements of Electrical and Electronics Engineering 
Programming for Problem Solving 
Advanced Engineering Physics Lab 

25CS107ES 

Programming for Problem Solving Lab 

25EE108ES 

25ME109ES 

Elements  of  Electrical  and  Electronics  Engineering 
Lab 
Engineering Workshop 
Induction Program 
Total Credits 

3 
3 
2 
3 
3 
0 

0 

0 

0 

1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

0 

0 

0 

0 
0 
2 
0 
0 
2 

2 

2 

2 

4 
3 
3 
3 
3 
1 

1 

1 

1 

14 

01 

10 

20 

I Year II Semester (26 Hours) 

S. No. 

Course 
Code 

Course Title 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

25MA201BS 

Ordinary Differential Equations and Vector Calculus 

25CH202BS 

Engineering Chemistry 

25CS203ES 

Python Programming  

25EN203HS 

English for Skill Enhancement 

25CE204PC 

Building Planning and Construction  

25CE205PC 

Engineering Mechanics for Civil Engineers 

25CH206BS 

Engineering Chemistry Lab 

25CS210ES 

Python Programming Lab 

25EN208HS 

English Language and Communication Skills Lab 

NSS and Yoga 

Total Credits 

L: T: P: C (Lecture periods: Tutorial periods: Practical periods: Credits) 

L 

T 

P  Credits 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

2 

2 

2 

2 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

1 

1 

1 

18 

0 

08 

21 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MATRICES AND CALCULUS 

Pre-requisites: Mathematical Knowledge at pre-university level 
Course Objectives: To learn 
•  Applying basic operations on matrices and their properties. 
•  Concept of a rank of the matrix and applying this concept to know the consistency 

and solving the system of linear equations. 

•  Concept of  Eigen values and  eigenvectors and to reduce the  quadratic form to canonical 

form 

•  Geometrical  approach  to  the  mean  value  theorems  and  their  application  to  the 

mathematical problems 

•  Finding maxima and minima of function of two and three variables. 
•  Evaluation of multiple integrals and their applications 

Course outcomes: After learning the contents of this paper the student must be able to 
•  Write  the  matrix  representation  of  a  set  of  linear  equations  and  to  analyze  the 

solution of the system of equations 
•  Find the Eigen values and Eigen vectors 
•  Reduce the quadratic form to canonical form using orthogonal transformations. 
•  Solve the applications on the mean value theorems. 
•  Find the extreme values of functions of two variables with/ without constraints. 
•  Evaluate the multiple integrals and apply the concept to find areas, volumes 

8 L  
UNIT-I: Matrices   
Rank of a matrix by Echelon form and Normal form, Inverse of Non-singular matrices by Gauss-
Jordan  method,  System  of  linear  equations:  Solving  system  of  Homogeneous  and  Non-
Homogeneous equations, Gauss Jacobi, Gauss Seidel Iteration Method. 

UNIT-II: Eigen values and Eigen vectors 
10 L  
Linear  Transformation  and  Orthogonal  Transformation:  Eigen  values,  Eigenvectors  and  their 
properties,  Cayley-Hamilton Theorem (without proof), finding inverse and power of a matrix by 
Cayley-Hamilton  Theorem,  Quadratic  forms  and  Nature  of  the  Quadratic  Forms,  Reduction  of    
Quadratic form to canonical forms by Orthogonal Transformation. 

UNIT-III: Single Variable Calculus 
10 L  
Limit  and  continuity  of  functions  and  its  properties.  Mean  value  theorems:  Rolle’s  theorem, 
Lagrange’s Mean value theorem with their Geometrical Interpretation and applications, Cauchy’s 
Mean value Theorem, Taylor’s Series (without proofs). 

UNIT-IV: Multivariable Calculus (Partial Differentiation and applications)   
Definitions of Limit and continuity.  
Partial  Differentiation:  Euler’s  Theorem,  Total  derivative,  Jacobian,  Functional  dependence  & 
independence. Applications: Maxima and minima of functions of two variables and three variables 
using    method of Lagrange multipliers. 

10L    

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIT-V: Multivariable Calculus (Integration)       
Evaluation  of  Double  Integrals  (Cartesian and  polar  coordinates),  change  of  order  of integration 
(only  Cartesian  form),  Change  of  variables  for  double  (Cartesian  to  polar)  and  Evaluation  of 
Triple Integrals. 
Applications: Areas (by double integrals) and volumes (by double integrals and triple integrals). 

10 L                                                                   

TEXT BOOKS: 

1.  B.S. Grewal, Higher Engineering Mathematics, Khanna Publishers, 36th Edition, 2010. 
2.  R.K. 

Iyengar,  Advanced  Engineering  Mathematics,  Narosa 

Jain  and  S.R.K. 

Publications, 5th Editon, 2016. 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 

1.  Erwin  kreyszig,  Advanced  Engineering  Mathematics,  9th  Edition,  John  Wiley  &  Sons, 

2006. 

2.  G.B.  Thomas  and  R.L.  Finney,  Calculus  and  Analytic  geometry,  9thEdition,Pearson, 

Reprint, 2002. 

3.  N.P.  Bali  and  Manish  Goyal,  A  text  book  of  Engineering  Mathematics,  Laxmi 

Publications, Reprint, 2008. 

4.  H.  K.  Dass  and  Er.  Rajnish  Verma,  Higher  Engineering  Mathematics,  S  Chand  and 

Company Limited, New Delhi. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASSIGNMENT QUESTIONS 

UNIT-I 
Short Answer Questions (1M):- 
1)  Define rank of a matrix. 

2)  Find the value of k such that rank of [

1 2
3
2 𝐾 7
3 6 10

] is ‘2’. 

3)  State the conditions when the system of non-homogeneous equations 
        (i) Unique solution (ii) infinite no. of solutions (iii) no solution.  

will have  

4)     State the conditions when the system of homogeneous equations 
         (i) trivial solution (ii) non trivial solutions.  
5)     Show that the vectors X1=(1,1,1) X2=(3,1,2) and X3=(2,1,4) are linearly independent. 
6)     Show that the vectors X1=(3,1,-4) X2=(2,2,-3) and X3=(0,-4,1) are linearly dependent. 

will have  

7)  Find the rank of [−

1 2 1
2 4 3
1 0 2

] . 

8)  Define Linearly Independent and Linearly Dependent set of vectors  . 
9)  Define Homogeneous equation with an example. 
10)  Define Non Homogeneous equation with an example 

Long Answer Questions:- (5M or 10M) 

1)  Find the Rank of the matrix by reducing into Echelon Form                                

(i) 

    (ii) 

2)  Find the Rank of the matrix by reducing 

into Normal form        

3)  Find the Rank of the matrix by reducing [

]into Normal form       

1 −1

−1 −3
1
2 −5
1
−1

3 −1
0
2 −3
1
0

4)  Find the inverse of the matrix A= 

by using Gauss-Jordan method            

BAX=0=AX−−−0211201311011310−−−−−−−−54474131102412101342−−−−−−−7036231342111132210320461NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5)  For what values of 

 and 

 the system of equations  

            i) no solution ii) a unique solution iii) an infinite number of solutions.                      
system 
and 

consistency 

6)  Test 

hence 

solve 

the 

for 

 have  

: 

7)  Show 

that 

the 

only 

real 

number 

for  which 

system  
 has non-zero solution is 6 and solve 

the 

them, when 

8)  Solve 

the 

following 

system 

of 

equations 

9)  Solve the following system using Gauss Jacobi method 

20𝑥 + 𝑦 − 2𝑧 = 17 , 3𝑥 + 20𝑦 − 𝑧 = −18 , 2𝑥 − 3𝑦 + 20𝑧 = 25 

     10) 
                      8𝑥 − 3𝑦 + 2𝑧 = 20 , 4𝑥 + 11𝑦 − 𝑧 = 33 , 6𝑥 + 3𝑦 + 12𝑧 = 35.                                                         
     11)   Solve the following system of equations using Gauss-Seidel iteration method. 

Jacobi  method.   

using  Gauss 

following 

system 

Solve 

the 

     12)   Solve the following system of equations using Gauss-Seidel iteration method. 

.                                             

.                                               

UNIT-II 
Short Answer Questions (1M):- 

1)  Define Eigen value and Eigen Vector of a matrix. 
2)  If the Eigen values of A are 1,2,3 then find (i) det A (ii) Trace of A 

3)  Find the Eigen values of the matrix 𝐴2 [

4)  State Cayley- Hamilton theorem. 

1 0 0
0 4 0
0 0 3

] 

5)  Find the sum and product of the Eigen values of [

1 1 3
1 5 3
3 1 1

] 

6)  Define Quadratic form. 

7)  Define Nature of a Quadratic form. 

8)  Define Rank, Index and signature of Quadratic form. 

9)   Find the symmetric matrix of the quadratic form 

10) Write the quadratic form for the  symmetric matrix 

=++=++=++zyxzyxzyx2,1032,62574,22,22=−−=++=−−zyxzyxzyxzzyxyzyxxzyx=++=++=++32,23,326=034,0423,0322,023=+−+−=−+−=−+−=+−+wzyxwzyxwzyxwzyx141022,13102,1210=++=++=++zyxzyxzyx361236,33114,20238=++=−+=+−zyxzyxzyxyzxzxyzyx2822222++++−5331NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)55 
 
            
                                                           
 
                                                                                                        
  
 
 
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long Answer Questions (10M):- 
1)  Find  the  Eigen  values  and  the  corresponding  Eigen  vectors  of  the  matrix  A=

2)  Find  the  Eigen  values  and  the  corresponding  Eigen  vectors  of  the  matrix  A=

3)  Find the Eigen values and the Eigen vectors of 

4)  Verify Cayley-Hamilton theorem for A=

5)  Verify Cayley-Hamilton theorem and hence find 

 for A=

6)  Verify Cayley-Hamilton theorem and hence find 

   for A=

7)  i)  If A= 

write 

 as a linear polynomial in A.       

    ii) If A=[

1 2 −3
5
0 3
0 0 −2

], Find the Eigen values of 𝐴3 + 5A +8I.                            

8) Reduce the quadratic form 
    Orthogonal transformation and hence discuss the nature, rank, index and signature 
    of the quadratic form. 

 to canonical form by  

9) Reduce the quadratic 
      nature of the quadratic form, index and signature of the quadratic form.                        

 to canonical form and hence find 

10) Reduce the quadratic form 
     Orthogonal transformation and hence discuss the nature, rank, index and signature 
     of the quadratic form. 

 to canonical form by  

−−−−342476268−−−−312132226−22112022121101011241andAA−−−−1222121211−A−−−−442331311−2113IAAA432245−+−yzxzxyzyx222353222−+−++yzxzxyzyx128423222++−−−yzxzxyzyx222222222−+−++NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIT-III: CALCULUS 

Short Answer Questions (1M):- 

1.  State Rolle’s Theorem. 
2.  Verify whether Rolle’s Theorem can be applied to 
3.  State Lagrange’s Mean value theorem. 
4.  State Cauchy’s Mean value theorem. 
5.  Define limit of a function. 
6.  Define continuity of a function. 
7.  State Taylor’s Theorem with Lagrange’s form of remainder. 
8.  Write the Maclaurin’s series. 
9.  Find the value of ‘c’ using Rolle’s mean value theorem for f(x)= 𝑥2  in [-1,1] 
10.  Discuss the applicability of Lagrange’s mean value theorem to the function f(x)=

 in  [0, 𝜋] 

1,1] 

11.  Verify Cauchy’s mean value theorem for f(x)=sin x and g(x)=cos x on [0,

𝜋

2

]. 

1

𝑥

 in [-

Long Answer Questions:- 

1. Verify the Rolle’s Theorem for the function  

 in 

.                                  

2. Verify Rolle’s Theorem for the function 

 in [a, b].                           

3. Show that 

 using Lagrange’s mean value theorem. 

4. If a<b, Prove that  

𝑏−𝑎

1+𝑏2 < tan−1 𝑏 − tan−1 𝑎 <

𝑏−𝑎

1+𝑎2 using Lagrange’s mean value theorem 

and hence deduce that 

.                                                                     

5. Verify Cauchy’s mean value theorem for the function 𝑒 𝑥  and 𝑒−𝑥  in the 

     Interval [a, b].                                                                                                                       

6. Discuss the applicability of Rolle’s theorem for f(x)=|x| in [-1,1]. 

7. Verify Rolle’s Theorem for the function f(x)=log[

𝑥2+𝑎𝑏
𝑥(𝑎+𝑏)

]in [a.b], a>0,b>0. 

8. Verify  Lagrange’s Mean value theorem for the function f(x)=x(x-1)(x-2) in[0,

9. Using Lagrange’s Mean value theorem ,prove that 
10.  Verify  Cauchy’s  mean  value  theorem  for  the  function  for  the  functions  f(x)=𝑥2  and 

5√3

>

−

−

3

3

> cos−1 3
5

𝜋

𝜋

1

1
]. 
2
1
 . 
8

g(x)=𝑥3 in [1,2]. 

11. Verify Cauchy’s mean value theorem for f(x)=sinx and g(x)=cosx on[0,
1
12. Verify Taylor’s Theorem for 𝑓(𝑥) = 𝑥3 − 3𝑥2 + 2𝑥 in  [0,
] 
2

𝜋

2

] 

xxftan)(=xexxfsin)(=(),0++=)(log)(2baxabxxf81353cos35131−−−61434tan25341++−NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIT-IV 
PARTIAL DIFFERENTIATION AND APPLICATIONS 

Short Answer Questions (1M):- 
1. Write properties of Jacobian. 
2. Define homogeneous function and give an example 

3. Verify if 

𝜕2 𝑓
𝜕𝑥𝜕𝑦

=  

𝜕2 𝑓 
𝜕𝑦𝜕𝑥

  if  𝑓(𝑥, 𝑦) = 𝑥3 + 𝑦3 − 3𝑎𝑥𝑦 

4.  State Euler’s theorem for function of two variables. 
5. Verify Euler’s theorem for 𝑧 = 𝑎𝑥2 + 2ℎ𝑥𝑦 + 𝑏𝑦2 
6. u = x2+y2, x=at2, y=2at then find 

𝑑𝑢

. 

𝑑𝑡
7. 𝐼𝑓 𝑢 = 𝑓(𝑥 + 𝑦, 𝑥 − 𝑦), then find 

8. If x=u (1+v), y=v (1+u) then prove that 

 =1+u+v. 

9. If f(x, y) = xy+(x-y) then find the stationary points. 
10. Define maximum and minimum of f(x, y) 
11. What do you mean by saddle point? 

𝜕𝑢

 𝜕𝑢

𝜕𝑥

+

𝜕𝑦
𝜕(𝑥,𝑦)

𝜕(𝑢,𝑣)

Long Answer Questions:- 
1. If 𝑟2 = 𝑥2 + 𝑦2 + 𝑧2 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝑢 = 𝑟𝑚 𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑛 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑣𝑒 𝑡ℎ𝑎𝑡
𝜕𝑢

2. 𝑓 𝑢 = 𝑓(𝑦 − 𝑧, 𝑧 − 𝑥, 𝑥 − 𝑦), then show that

 𝜕𝑢

+

𝜕2𝑢
𝜕𝑥2 +
+

𝜕2𝑢
𝜕𝑦2 +

𝜕2𝑢
𝜕𝑧2 = 𝑚(𝑚 + 1)𝑟𝑚−2.   
= 0.                                               

𝜕𝑢

𝜕𝑥

𝜕𝑦
𝜕𝑧
𝜕(𝑥,𝑦,𝑧)

3. If x + y + z = u, y + z = uv, z = uvw, then evaluate 

4. If  𝑢 = log (

𝜕(𝑢,𝑣,𝑤)
) then prove that 𝑥𝑢𝑥 + 𝑦𝑢𝑦 = 1.                                                               

𝑥2+𝑦2
𝑥+𝑦
5. If 𝑥 = 𝑟𝑐𝑜𝑠𝜃, 𝑦 = 𝑟𝑠𝑖𝑛𝜃 𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑑 
𝜕(𝑥,𝑦)
6.  Show  that  functions  u  =xy  +  yz  +  zx,  v=  x2  +  y2  +  z2  and  w=x  +  y  +  z  are  functionally 

.  Also show that 

= 1            

 𝑎𝑛𝑑 

𝜕(𝑥,𝑦)

𝜕(𝑥,𝑦)

𝜕(𝑥,𝑦)

𝜕(𝑟,𝜃)

𝜕(𝑟,𝜃)

𝜕(𝑟,𝜃)

𝜕(𝑟,𝜃)

.

related. Find the relation between them.                                                                                                 

7. If 𝑢 = 𝑥 + 𝑦 − 𝑧 , 𝑣  =  𝑥 − 𝑦 + 𝑧 , 𝑤 = x2+y2+z2 −2𝑦𝑧 then show that the functions are   
    functionally dependent Find the relation between them.                                                       
8. Find the relative maximum and minimum values of the function 
    𝑓(𝑥, 𝑦) = 3𝑥2𝑦 + 𝑦3 − 3𝑥2 − 3𝑦2 + 1       

9. Examine for minimum and maximum values of sinx + siny + sin(x+y).  

10.  The  temperature  T  at  any  point  (x,  y,  z)  in  space  is  T=400xyz2      Find  the  highest 

temperature on the surface of the unit sphere x2+y2+z2=1.     

11. A rectangular box open at the top is to have volume of 32cubic ft. Find the dimensions of 

the  box requiring least material for its construction.      

12. Find the maximum of x2+y2+z2 such that 2x+3y+z=14 using Lagrange’s multiplier method.                                  

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)58 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
                                                                      
                          
                                                                
                                                          
                                                                                                                             
 
 
UNIT-V 
MULTIPLE INTEGRALS (IMP.QUESTIONS) 

 Short Answer Questions (1M):- 
1.  Find the area bounded by the curves 𝑦 = 𝑥 and 𝑦 = 𝑥2. 

2.  Evaluate ∫ ∫ 𝑥21

𝑦2𝑑𝑥𝑑𝑦 

1
0

0

3.  Evaluate∫ ∫ ∫ 𝑑

𝑥𝑑𝑦𝑑𝑧. 

1
−1

2
−2

3
−3

4.  Evaluate ∫ ∫ 𝑑√𝑥

𝑦𝑑𝑥 

1
0

0

𝑎
√𝑏2−𝑦2
5.  Find the limits after changing the order of integration ∫ ∫
𝑏
0

𝑏
0

𝑓

(𝑥, 𝑦)𝑑𝑥𝑑𝑦. 

6.  Show that area between the parabolas 𝑦2 = 4𝑎𝑥 and 𝑥2 = 4𝑎𝑦is 

16𝑎2
3

. 

7.  Evaluate ∫ ∫ 𝑦2𝑥

2
1

0

𝑑𝑥𝑑𝑦 . 

8.  Evaluate ∫

𝜋
𝜃=0

𝑎𝑐𝑜𝑠𝜃
∫
𝑟=0

𝑑

𝑟𝑑𝜃. 

√1+𝑥2
9.  Evaluate ∫ ∫
0

1
0

𝑑𝑥𝑑𝑦
1+𝑥2+𝑦2

 . 

3
10.  ∫ ∫ ∫ 𝑥𝑦𝑧 𝑑𝑥 𝑑𝑦 𝑑𝑧
2

2
1

1
0

. 

𝜋
0

 Long Answer Questions:- 
𝑎(1+𝑐𝑜𝑠𝜃)
1. Evaluate∫ ∫
0
2. Evaluate∬ 𝑥𝑅 𝑦 𝑑𝑥𝑑𝑦 where 𝑅 is the region bounded by 𝑥 − 𝑎𝑥𝑖𝑠 ordinate 𝑥 = 2𝑎 and  
    the curve 𝑥2 = 4𝑎𝑦  
3. Change into polar co-ordinates and evaluate∫ ∫ 𝑒−(𝑥2+𝑦2)

𝑐𝑜𝑠𝜃 𝑑𝑟𝑑𝜃 . 

 𝑑𝑥𝑑𝑦. 

𝑟2

∞
0

∞
0
𝑥2𝑦2
𝑥2+𝑦2  𝑑𝑥𝑑𝑦 over the annular region  

4. By changing into polar coordinates, evaluate ∬
    between the circles 𝑥2 + 𝑦2 = 𝑎2 and 𝑥2 + 𝑦2 = 𝑏2          
5. Evaluate ∬ 𝑟3 𝑑𝑟𝑑𝜃 over the area included beyween the circles 𝑟 = 2𝑠𝑖𝑛𝜃 and 
    𝑟 = 4𝑠𝑖𝑛𝜃                                                       
6. Change the order of integration in ∫ ∫
𝑥

1
0

2−𝑥
𝑥2

𝑦 𝑑𝑥𝑑𝑦 and hence evaluate the double integral.    

7. Change the order of integration and evaluate

8. Change the order of integration and evaluate

1
0

1−𝑧
9. Evaluate∫ ∫
0
𝑙𝑜𝑔2
10. Evaluate ∫
0

1−𝑦−𝑧
𝑥
∫
0
𝑥
𝑥+𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑦
∫ ∫
0
0

𝑦𝑧 𝑑𝑥𝑑𝑦𝑑𝑧                                        
𝑒 𝑥+𝑦+𝑧

𝑑𝑥 𝑑𝑦 𝑑𝑧

.4024/2aaxaxdydx+aaxaxdxdyyx0//22.)(NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                          
 
11. Find the volume of the tetrahedron bounded by the planes x=0, y=0, z=0 and 

𝑥

𝑎

+

𝑦

𝑏

+

𝑧

𝑐

 =1.  

12. Find the area of the region bounded by the parabolas 𝑦2 = 4𝑥 and 𝑥2 = 4𝑦.     

13. Find the area of the circle using double integral.  

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)60 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY 

Course Objectives: 
1.  To  develop  adaptability  to  new  advances  in  Engineering  Chemistry  and  acquire  the  essential 

skills to become a competent engineering professional.  

2.  To  understand  the  industrial  significance  of  water  treatment,  fundamental  principles  of  battery 
chemistry, and the impact of corrosion along with its control methods for structural protection.  
3. To impart foundational knowledge of various energy sources and their practical applications in 

engineering.  

4. To equip students with an understanding of smart materials, biosensors, and analytical techniques 

applicable in engineering, industrial, environmental, and biomedical fields. 

Course Outcomes:  
1.  Students  will  be able to  understand the  fundamental  properties  of  water and  its  applications  in 

both domestic and industrial purposes.  

2. Students will gain basic knowledge of electrochemical processes and their relevance to corrosion 

and its control methods.  

3.  Students  will  comprehend  the  significance  and  practical  applications  of  batteries  and  various 

energy sources, enhancing their potential as future engineers and entrepreneurs.  

4.  Students  will  learn  the  basic  concepts  and  properties  of  polymers  and  other  engineering 

materials.  

5.  Students  will  be  able  to  apply  the  principles  of  UV-Visible,  IR  spectroscopy  and  Raman 

spectroscopy in analyzing pollutants in dye industries and biomedical applications. 

UNIT - I: Water and its treatment: [10] 
Introduction-  Hardness,  types,  degree  of  hardness  and  units.  Estimation  of  hardness  of  water  by 
complexometric method - Numerical problems. Potable water and its specifications (WHO) - Steps 
involved  in  the  treatment  of  potable  water  -  Disinfection  of  potable  water  by  chlorination  and 
break- point chlorination. Defluoridation - Nalgonda technique. 
Boiler troubles: Scales, Sludges and Caustic embrittlement. Internal treatment of boiler feed water - 
Calgon conditioning, Phosphate conditioning, Colloidal conditioning. External treatment methods - 
Softening of water by ion- exchange processes. Desalination of brackish water – Reverse osmosis. 

UNIT - II: Electrochemistry and Corrosion: [10] 
 Introduction- Electrode potential, standard electrode potential, Nernst equation (no derivation), 
electrochemical  cell  -  Galvanic  cell,  cell  representation,  EMF  of  cell  -  Numerical  problems. 
Types  of  electrodes,  reference  electrodes  -  Primary  reference  electrode  -  Standard  Hydrogen 
Electrode  (SHE),  Secondary  reference  electrode  -  Calomel  electrode.  Construction,  working 
and determination of pH of unknown solution using SHE and Calomel electrode. 
Corrosion:  Introduction-  Definition,  causes  and  effects  of  corrosion  –  Theories  of  corrosion, 
chemical  and  electrochemical  theories  of  corrosion,  Types  of  corrosion:  galvanic,  water-line  and 
pitting corrosion. Factors affecting rate of corrosion - Nature of the metal, Nature of the corroding 
environment.  Corrosion  control  methods  -  Cathodic  protection  Methods  -  Sacrificial  anode  and 
impressed current methods. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)61  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIT - III: Energy sources: [10] 
Batteries: Introduction – Classification of batteries - Primary, secondary and reserve batteries 
with examples. Construction, working and applications of Zn-air and Lithium ion battery. Fuel 
Cells  –  Differences between a battery and a fuel cell, Construction and applications of Direct 
Methanol Fuel Cell (DMFC). 
Fuels: Introduction  and  characteristics  of  a  good fuel,  Calorific  value  – Units  -  HCV, LCV- 
Dulongs formula - Numerical problems. 
Fossil fuels:  Introduction,  Classification,  Petroleum  -  Refining  of  Crude  oil, Cracking  - Types  of 
cracking - Moving bed catalytic cracking.  LPG and CNG composition and uses. 
Synthetic  Fuels:  Fischer-Tropsch  process,  Introduction  and  applications  of  Hythane  and  Green 
Hydrogen. 

UNIT - IV: Polymers: [10] 
Definition  -  Classification  of  polymers:  Based  on  origin  and  tacticity  with  examples  – 
Types  of  polymerization  -  Addition  (free  radical  addition  mechanism)  and  condensation 
polymerization. 
Plastics,  Elastomers  and  Fibers:  Definition  and  applications  (PVC,  Buna-S,  Nylon-6,6). 
Differences between themoplastics and thermo setting plastics, Fiber reinforced plastics (FRP). 
Conducting polymers: Definition and Classification with examples - Mechanism of conduction in 
trans- poly-acetylene and applications of conducting polymers.  
Biodegradable polymers: Polylactic acid and its applications. 

UNIT - V: Advanced Functional Materials: [10]  
Smart  materials:  Introduction,  Classification  with  examples  -  Shape  Memory  Alloys  – 
Nitinol, Piezoelectric materials – quartz and their engineering applications. 
Biosensor - Definition, Amperometric Glucose monitor sensor. 
Interpretative spectroscopic applications of UV-Visible spectroscopy for Analysis of pollutants in 
dye industry, IR spectroscopy in night vision-security, Pollution Under Control- CO sensor (Passive 
Infrared detection), Raman spectroscopy (application) - Tumour detection in medical applications. 

TEXT BOOKS:  
1. Engineering Chemistry by P.C. Jain and M. Jain, Dhanpatrai Publishing Company, 2010.  
2. Engineering Chemistry by Rama Devi, Dr. P. Aparna and Rath, Cengage learning, 2025.  

REFERENCE BOOKS:  
1.Engineering  Chemistry:  by  Thirumala  Chary  Laxminarayana  &  Shashikala,  Pearson 

Publications (2020)  

2. Engineering Chemistry by Shashi Chawla, Dhanpatrai and Company (P) Ltd. Delhi 2011.  
3. Engineering Chemistry by Shikha Agarwal, Cambridge University Press, Delhi 2015.  
4. Engineering Analysis of Smart Material Systems by Donald J. Leo, Wiley, 2007.  
5.  Challenges  and  Opportunities  in  Green  Hydrogen  by  Editors:  Paramvir  Singh,  Avinash 

Kumar Agarwal, Anupma Thakur, R.K Sinha.  

6.  Raman  Spectroscopy  in  Human  Health  and  Biomedicine,  https://www.worldscientific.com/ 

doi/epdf/10.1142/13094  

7. E-Content- https://doi.org/10.1142/13094 | October 2023  
8.E-books: ttps://archive.org/details/EngineeringChemistryByShashiChawla/page/n11/mode/2u 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)62  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
ASSIGNMENT QUESTIONS 

UNIT- I: WATER AND ITS TREATMENT  

Long answer questions: 
1. 

 What  are  the  types  of  hardness  of  water?  What  are  the  units  of  hardness  and  write  the 
interconversion between various units of hardness. 
 Explain the estimation of hardness of water by EDTA complexometric method. 

2. 
3.  What  is  potable  water?  List  out  its  specifications  and  explain  the  various  steps  involved  in  the 

treatment of potable water  

4.  Explain defluoridation of water by Nalgonda Technique 
5.  Numerical Problem on Degree of Hardness of water.   
6.  Numerical Problem on EDTA method.   
7.  Explain causes, effects and prevention of Caustic embrittlement. 
8.  Discuss  Reverse Osmosis  method for the desalination of brackish  water  with  the help  of  a neat 

diagram. 

9.  Discuss Ion Exchange process for softening of hard water with the help of a neat diagram. 
10.  Explain internal treatment of water with equations. 
11.  Differentiate Scales & Sludges. 
12.  Explain the principle in the estimation of hardness of  water. 

UNIT-II ELECTROCHEMISTRY & CORROSION: 

Long answer questions: 
1.  Explain the construction and working of galvanic Cell. 
2.  Explain the construction, working of Standard Hydrogen electrode(SHE) 
3.  Explain the construction and working standard calomel electrode 
4.  Explain  the  mechanism  of  electrochemical  theory  of  wet  corrosion  by  taking  iron  as  an       

example.  

5.  Explain Cathodic Protection.  
6.  Explain how metal and environment affect the rate of corrosion.  
7.  Explain the determination of PH of unknown solution using calomel electrode and SHE.  
8.  a)  Define  single  electrode  potential,  standard  electrode  potential,  Emf,  reference  electrode  & 

indicator electrode. 

9.  Explain the various types of corrosion. 
10.  Explain dry theory of corrosion. 
11.  Numericals on emf. 
12.  Explain Oxidation corrosion.  

UNIT-III ENERGY SOURCES: 

Long answer questions: 
1.  Explain the construction, working and applications of Lithium ion battery 
2.  Explain the construction, working and applications of DMFC  

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)63  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  List out the characteristics of a good fuel. 
4.  Explain synthesis of petrol by Fischer-Tropsch’s process. 
5.  Explain moving bed catalytic cracking. 
6.  Explain the refining of petroleum by fractional distillation.? 
7.  Explain Hythane and green hydrogen.  
8.  Differentiate primary and secondary battery. 
9.  Define Calorific value of a fuel, write its units. What are various types of calorific value?  
10.  Write the composition and applications of CNG & LPG. 
11.  Numericals on Dulong formula. 
12.  Distinguish battery and fuel cell 

UNIT-IV POLYMERS: 

Long answer questions: 
1.  What are polymers? Give the classification of polymers with examples. 
2.  Explain the mechanism of free radical addition polymerization with an example. 
3.  Write an account on preparation, properties and uses of Buna-S rubber, PVC. 
4.  Distinguish between thermoplastic and thermosetting plastics. 
5.  What  are  conducting  polymers?  Explain  the  mechanism  of  conduction  in  trans-

polyacetylene. 

6.  What  are  Biodegradable  polymers?  Explain  the  synthesis,  properties  and  applications  of 

Polylactic acid. 

7.  Write the differences between addition and condensation polymerisation. 
8.  Write an account on preparation, properties and uses of Nylon-6,6. 
9.  Write the classification of conducting polymers. 
10.  Differentiate plastics, fibres and elastomers. Give examples. 
11.  What are fibre reinforced plastics? List out their applications. 
12.  Define Functionality and tacticity of the polymer. 

UNIT-V ADVANCED FUNCTIONAL MATERIALS: 

Long Answer Questions: 
1.  Explain the properties and classification of smart materials with suitable examples along with their 

engineering applications. 

2.  Write short notes about shape memory alloys with examples and applications. 
3.  Discuss piezoelectric materials and their engineering applications. 
4.  Explain the principle, working and applications of biosensors in medical and other related fields. 
5.  Discuss  the  spectroscopic  applications  of  UV-visible  spectrum  for  analysis  of  pollutants  in  dye 

industry. 

6.  Explain the role of IR spectroscopy in night vision security & CO sensors. 
7.  Write a note on Raman spectroscopy in tumour detection and its medical applications. 
8.  Explain the principle of UV-visible spectroscopy. Define Beer-Lambert's law. 
9.  Describe the principle of passive infrared detection or pollution under control CO sensor. 
10.  Write the principle in Raman Spectroscopy. 
11.  Define piezoelectric effect. What are the applications of Nitinol & Quartz. 
12.  Mention the types of CO sensors. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)64  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROGRAMMING FOR PROBLEM SOLVING 

Course Objectives: 
1. To learn the fundamentals of computers. 
2. To understand the various steps in program development. 
3. To learn the syntax and semantics of the C programming language. 
4. To learn the usage of structured programming approaches in solving problems. 

Course Outcomes: The student will learn 
1. To write algorithms and to draw flowcharts for solving problems. 
2. To convert the algorithms/flowcharts to C programs. 
3. To code and test a given logic in the C programming language. 
4. To decompose a problem into functions and to develop modular reusable code. 
5. To use arrays, pointers, strings and structures to write C programs. 
6. Searching and sorting problems. 

UNIT  -  I:  Overview  of  C:C  Language  Elements,  Variable  Declarations  and  Data  Types, 
Executable  Statements,  General  Form  of  a  C  Program,  Operators,  expressions  and  precedence, 
Formatting Numbers in Program Output. 
Selection Structures: Control Structures, Conditions, if Statement, if Statements with Compound 
Statements, Decision Steps in Algorithms. 
Repetition and Loop Statements: Repetition in Programs, Counting Loops and the while Statement, 
Computing a Sum or Product in a Loop, for Statement, Conditional Loops, Loop Design, Nested 
Loops, do-while Statement. 

UNIT  -  II:  Top-Down  Design  with  Functions:  Building  Programs  from  Existing  Information, 
Library  Functions,  Top-Down  Design  and  Structure  Charts,  Functions  without  Arguments, 
Functions with Input Arguments. 
Pointers and Modular Programming: Pointers and the Indirection Operator, Functions with Output 
Parameters, Multiple Calls to a Function with Input/ Output Parameters, Scope of Names, Formal 
Output Parameters as Actual Arguments. 

UNIT  -  III:  Arrays:  Declaring  and  Referencing  Arrays,  Array  Subscripts,  Using  for  Loops  for 
Sequential  Access,  Using  Array  Elements  as  Function  Arguments,  Array  Arguments,  Searching 
and Sorting an Array, Parallel Arrays and Enumerated Types, Multidimensional Arrays. 
Strings: String Basics, String Library Functions: Assignment and Substrings, Longer Strings: 
Concatenation and Whole-Line Input, String Comparison, Arrays of Pointers. 

UNIT  -  IV:  Recursion:  The  Nature  of  Recursion,  Tracing  a  Recursive  Function,  Recursive 
Mathematical Functions, Recursive Functions with Array and String Parameters 
Structure  and  Union  Types:  User-Defined  Structure  Types,  Structure  Type  Data  as  Input  and 
Output Parameters, Functions with Structured Result Values, Union Types. 

UNIT - V: Text and Binary File Pointers: Input/ Output Files - Review and Further Study, Binary 
Files, Searching a Database. Searching and Sorting: Basic searching in an array of elements (linear 
and  binary  search  techniques),  Basic  algorithms  to  sort  array  of  elements  (Bubble,  Insertion  and 
Selection sort algorithms). 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)65  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEXT BOOKS: 
1. Jeri R. Hanly and Elliot B. Koffman, Problem solving and Program Design in C 7th Edition, 
Pearson.  
2. B.A. Forouzan and R.F. Gilberg C Programming and Data Structures, Cengage Learning, 
(3rd Edition). 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 
1. Brian W. Kernighan and Dennis M. Ritchie, The C Programming Language, Prentice Hall of 

India. 

2. E. Balagurusamy, Computer fundamentals and C, 2nd Edition, McGraw-Hill. 
3. Yashavant Kanetkar, Let Us C, 18th Edition, BPB. 
4. R.G. Dromey, How to solve it by Computer, Pearson (16th Impression). 
5. Programming in C, Stephen G. Kochan, Fourth Edition, Pearson Education. 
6. Herbert Schildt, C: The Complete Reference, Mc Graw Hill, 4th Edition. 

ASSIGNMENT QUESTIONS 

Unit - 1 

1.  Define  an  Algorithm  and  State  Properties  of  it?  Write  an  algorithm  for  the  roots  of 

Quadratic Equation? 

2.  Define  a  Flowchart  and  explain  different  symbols  used  for  flowchart?  Draw  the 

flowchart to find whether a number is prime or not. 
Explain a general structure of C program with an example? 
Explain different types of data types supported in C language? 

3. 
4. 
5.  What is an operator? Explain in detail various operators in c. 
6.  What is Expression? Explain in detail about Expression evaluation with Associativity 

& Precedence? 
Explain the types of type conversions in C with example? 

7. 
8.  What  are  different  types  of    '  if  '  statements  available  in  c?  Explain  them  with 

examples? 
Elaborate Switch statement with example program. 

9. 
10.  Write in detail about different types of loop statements in C. 
11.  Show how break and continue statements are used in a c programming with example. 
12.  Write a C program to check whether the given number is Prime Number or not? 
13.  Write a C program to check whether the given number is Palindrome or not? 
14.  Write a C program to print all Prime Numbers between 1 & N? 
15.  Write a C program to generate N terms of Fibonacci sequence? 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)66  
 
 
 
 
 
Unit - 2 

1.  What is a function? Why we use functions in C language? Give an example. 
2.  Distinguish  between  Library  functions  and  User  defined  functions  in  C  and 

Explain  with examples. 

3.  What  is  Proto  Type  of  function?  What  are  the  three  main  parts  of  a  function  in  C? 

Explain each briefly with syntax.  
Explain different types of C functions based on the return values and arguments.  
Explain the Parameter Passing Mechanisms in C-Language with examples. 

4. 
5. 
6.  Distinguish actual parameters and formal parameters. 
7.  Give a scope and life time of the following a) static variable b) extern variable.  
Explain briefly about different types of storage classes in C with an example program. 
8. 
9.  Define  Pointer?  Explain  the  process  of  declaring  and  initializing  pointers  with 

example. 

10.  Explain how pointers are used as function arguments with suitable program? Write a C 
function using pointers to exchange the values stored in two locations in the memory 

Unit - 3 

1.  What is an array? Explain different types of arrays with an example each? 
2.  How can we pass the Whole Array to Functions? Explain with example program. 
3.  Define C string? How to declare and initialize C strings with an example?  
4. 
5.  How can we declare  and initialize  Array of strings in C ? Write  a program to read 

Explain about String handling functions with example programs. 

and display array of strings. 

6.  Write Short notes on enumeration data type. 
7.  Write a C Program to perform Addition of two matrices? 
8.  Write a C Program to perform Multiplication of two matrices? 
9.  Write a C Program to perform Transpose of matrix? 
10.  Write a C Program to find maximum, minimum & average of array of integers? 
11.  Write a C program to access a one dimensional array using pointers? 

Unit - 4 

1.  What  is  recursive  function?  What are the limitations of recursion? 
2.  Write  a  c  program  to  find  factorial  of  a  given  number  using        recursion? 
Explain about dynamic memory management functions with an example. 
3. 
Explain a structure in detail with example? 
4. 
Explain in detail of array of structure with example? 
5. 
Explain in detail about pointers to structure with an example. 
6. 
Explain unions in C language? Differentiate structures and unions. 
7. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)67  
 
 
 
8.  Write C programs that use both recursive and non-recursive functions 

➢  To find the factorial of a given integer. 
➢  To print Fibonacci sequence  
➢  To find the GCD (greatest common divisor) of two given integers. 
➢  To find x^n 

9. 

Define a structure type book that would contain book name, author, pages and price. 
Write a program to read this data using member operator and display the same. 
10.  Write  a  C  program  using  array  of  structure  to  create  employee  records  with  the 

following fields: emp-id, name, designation, address, salary and display it. 

Unit - 5 

1.  Define file? Explain about the types of files with examples. 
2. 
3. 
4.  Write a program to read five student information into a file. The student information 

Explain different modes of opening files with syntax and example? 
Explain about random access to files with example? 

5. 
6. 

must consists of student name, roll number, branch and section 
Write a C program to copy one file to another file. 
Write a C program to merge two files into a third file (i.e., the contents of the first file 
followed by those of the second are put in the third file). 
Write a C program to count the lines, words and characters in a given text. 

7. 
8.  What  is  meant  by  searching?  Explain  the  linear  search  algorithm  with  example 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

program? 
Explain the Binary search algorithm with example? Write a C program to implement 
Binary Search Algorithm  
Explain  the  Bubble  Sort  Algorithm  with  an  example  and  write  a  C  Program  to 
implement Bubble Sort Algorithm. 
Explain  the  Selection  Sort  Algorithm  with  an  example  and  write  a  C  Program  to 
implement Selection Sort Algorithm. 
Explain  the  Insertion  Sort  Algorithm  with  an  example  and  write  a  C  Program  to 
implement Insertion Sort Algorithm. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)68  
 
 
 
 
 
 
BASIC ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING 

Course Objectives: 
•  To understand DC and Single & Three phase AC circuits 
•  To study and understand the different types of DC, AC machines and Transformers. 
•  To  import  the  knowledge  of  various  electrical  installations  and  the  concept  of  power, 

power factor and its improvement. 

Course Outcomes: Upon successful completion of the course, students will be able to: 
CO1:  Understand and analyze basic Electrical circuits 
CO2:  Study the working principles of Electrical Machines and Transformers 
CO3:  Introduce components of Low Voltage Electrical Installations. 

UNIT-I: 
D.C. Circuits: Electrical circuit elements (R, L and C), voltage and current sources, KVL & 
KCL,  analysis  of  simple  circuits  with  dc  excitation.  Superposition,  Thevenin  and  Norton 
Theorems. Time-domain analysis of first-order RL and RC circuits. 

UNIT-II: 
A.C.  Circuits:  Representation  of  sinusoidal  waveforms,  peak  and  rms  values,  phasor 
representation,  real  power, reactive power, apparent  power, power factor, Analysis of single-
phase  ac  circuits  consisting  of  R,  L,  C,  RL,  RC,  RLC  combinations  (series  and  parallel), 
resonance in series R-L-C circuit. Three-phase balanced circuits, voltage and current relations 
in star and delta connections. 

UNIT-III: 
Transformers:  Ideal  and  practical  transformer,  equivalent  circuit,  losses  in  transformers, 
regulation and efficiency. Auto-transformer and three-phase transformer connections. 

UNIT-IV: 
Electrical  Machines:  Construction  and  working  principle  of  dc  machine,  performance 
characteristics  of  dc  shunt  machine.  Generation  of  rotating  magnetic  field,  Construction  and 
working  of  a  three-phase  induction  motor,  Significance  of  torque-slip  characteristics.  Single-
phase  induction  motor, Construction  and  working.  Construction  and  working  of  synchronous 
generator. 

UNIT-V: 
Electrical  Installations:  Components  of  LT  Switchgear:  Switch  Fuse  Unit  (SFU),  MCB, 
ELCB,  MCCB,  Types  of  Wires  and  Cables,  Earthing.  Types  of  Batteries,  Important 
Characteristics  for  Batteries.  Elementary  calculations  for  energy  consumption,  power  factor 
improvement and battery backup. 

TEXT BOOKS: 
1.  D.P.  Kothari  and  I.  J.  Nagrath,  “Basic  Electrical  Engineering”,  Tata  McGraw  Hill,  4th 

Edition, 2019. 

2.  MS  Naidu  and  S  Kamakshaiah,  “Basic  Electrical  Engineering”,  Tata  McGraw  Hill,  2nd 

Edition, 2008. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)69  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REFERENCE BOOKS: 
1.  P.  Ramana,  M.  Suryakalavathi,  G.T.  Chandrasheker,  “Basic  Electrical  Engineering”,  S. 

Chand, 2nd Edition, 2019. 

2. D. C. Kulshreshtha, “Basic Electrical Engineering”, McGraw Hill, 2009 
3. M. S. Sukhija, T. K. Nagsarkar, “Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering”, Oxford, 1st 

Edition, 2012. 

4. Abhijit Chakrabarthi, Sudipta Debnath, Chandan Kumar Chanda, “Basic Electrical 

Engineering”, 2nd Edition, McGraw Hill, 2021. 

5. L. S. Bobrow, “Fundamentals of Electrical Engineering”, Oxford University Press, 2011. 
6. E. Hughes, “Electrical and Electronics Technology”, Pearson, 2010. 
7. V. D. Toro, “Electrical Engineering Fundamentals”, Prentice Hall India, 1989 

ASSIGNMENT QUESTIONS 

UNIT-1 (DC circuits) 

1.  Explain the classification of various circuit elements. 
2.  Explain in detail on various types of voltage and current soures. 
3.  Explain the KCL and KVL with examples. 
4.  Explain V-I relation in R, L and C elements. 
5.  Find the Req for the circuit shown in below figure 

6.  State Norton’s Theorem, Thevenin’s theorem, Superposition theorem 
7.  Using  the  Thevenins  theorem,  determine  the  current  through  the  4  Ohms  resistor  as 

shown in figure below 

8.  Using the Superposition theorem, determine the current through the 6 Ohms resistor as 

shown in figure below 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)70  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  For the given circuit below, find the current through 10 Ohms resistor? 

10. Find the current through the resistance RL(1.5 Ohms) of the circuit shown in the figure 

below using Norton’s equivalent circuit 

11. Derive the expression for transient current in R-C circuit. 
12. A series R-L circuit is supplied by the voltage. Determine the expression for i(t) when 

the switch is closed at t=0. 

Unit-2 (AC circuits) 

1.  Define the following terms 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 
vi. 

Frequency 
Peak factor 
Form factor 
Average value 
RMS value 
Instantaneous value of an alternating quantity 

2.  Derive an expression for Average value and RMS value of an alternating current wave 

I=Imsinωt. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)71  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  The  below  table  gives  the  values  of  current  and  time  at  a  half  cycle  of  an  alternating 

current 

Time(ms)  0.5 
Current 

6 

1 
13 

1.5 
22 

2 
39 

2.5 
55 

3 
67 

3.5 
75 

4 
59 

4.5 
4 

5 
0 

Assuming the negative half is similar, find out the values of i) supply frequency, 

ii) maximum peak value, iii) mean average value, iv) RMS value, v) the instantaneous 
value of current after 1.4ms and 3.8ms. 

4.  Explain  about  real  power,  apparent  power,  reactive  power  and  power  factor  of  an 

alternating quantity 

5.  A coil of inductance 31.8mH is connected in series with a 7Ω resistor across a 230V, 
50Hz  supply.  Calculate  i)  current,  ii)  phase  angle,  iii)  power  factor  and  iv)  power 
consumed in the circuit. 

6.  A RC circuit with R=30Ω and C=79.5μF is supplied from a 230V, 50Hz supply. Find 

the  i) Impedance, ii) Current, iii)Phase angle iv) power factor. 

7.  Define resonance, derive conditions for resonance in a series R,L,C circuit? 
8.  Explain the relation between voltages and currents in star and delta connections in 3-

phase balanced system? 

9.  Derive  the  expression  for  resonant  frequency  and  bandwidth  for  a  series  RLC 

resonant circuit. 

10. A  series  RLC  circuit  consists  of  R=3Ω,  L=2mH,  C=0.4μF  Determine  the  resonant 

frequency, Quality factor. 

11. Determine the line currents when a star connected balanced load with an impedance 
of (15+j10)Ω is connected to 200V, three phase balanced supply in positive sequence. 
12. Explain  Phase  difference?  What  is  the  frequency  of  AC  power  commonly  used  in 

residential buildings? 

Unit-3 (Transformer) 
1.  Define transformer and explain the working principle of a transformer. 
2.  Define ideal transformer and derive the EMF equation of a single phase transformer. 

Define transformation Ratio. 

3.  Develop  the equivalent  circuit of  a single phase transformer referred to  primary and 

4. 

secondary. 
Interpret in detail about working principle of auto transformer. Derive the expression 
for saving of copper in auto transformer. 

5.  Explain the various losses in a single phase transformer. 
6.  Explain  various  connections  of 
disadvantages and applications. 

three  phase 

transformers  with  advantages, 

7.  Discuss the difference of transformer and auto transformer with circuit diagrams. 
8.  Write the advantages and disadvantages, applications of auto transformer. 
9.  Define  efficiency  and  regulation.  Derive  the  condition  for  maximum  efficiency  of  a 

transformer. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)72  
 
 
 
10.  A 4500 V/225 V, 50 Hz single-phase transformer is to have an approximate e.m.f. per 
turn of 15 V and operate with a maximum flux of 1.4 T. Calculate (i) the number of 
primary and secondary turns and (ii) the cross-sectional area of the core 

11.  A  50  KVA,  1000/10000  V,  50Hz  single  phase  transformer  has  iron  loss  of  1200W. 
The  copper  loss  with  5  A  in  the  high  voltage  winding  is  500  W.  Calculate  the 
efficiency at i) 25 %, ii) 50 % iii) 100 % of normal load at power factor of 0.8. 

12.  A  400  KVA,  1-  phase  Transformer  has  an  efficiency  of  96%.  At  full  load,  if  the 
maximum  efficiency  occurs  at  by  3/4  full-load  Calculate  that  (i)  iron  losses  (ii) 
Copper loss at Full load (iii) efficiency at half-load. 

Unit-4 (Electrical Machines) 

1.  Explain the Construction and working of three phase induction motor. 
2.  Discuss the significance of torque slip characteristics of induction motor. 
3.  Describe the principle of working of DC machine (Motor & generator). 
4.  Explain the working principle of alternator with neat sketch. 
5.  Derive the condition for maximum torque under running condition of 3 phase induction 

motor. 

6.  Explain why the rotor is forced to rotate in the direction of rotating magnetic field in a 3 

phase induction motor. 

7.  Describe the constructional difference between a squirrel cage rotor and slip ring rotor 

of an induction motor. Discuss their relative advantages and disadvantages. 

8.   Explain the construction of a DC machine. 
9.  Derive the Torque equation of a 3-Phase Induction Motor. 
10. Derive the EMF equation of a DC machine. 
11. List  the losses in a DC machine and induction motor 
12. The stator of a 3 phase, 2 pole induction motor is connected to 50Hz power supply. The 
rotor runs at 2995 rev/min at full load. Determine the synchronous speed and slip at full 
load of the motor. 

Unit-5 (Electrical installation) 

1.  What is ELCB? Explain the working principle of ELCB. Mention advantages 

and disadvantages of ELCB. 

2.  Explain the different types of wires and cables. 
3.  Explain different types of primary and secondary batteries. 
4.  Explain the characteristics of batteries. 
5.  What is the main objective of Earthing any electrical installation and explain different 

types of Earthing with applications. 

6.  Explain 

the  working  of  MCCB.  Mention 

its  advantages,  disadvantages  and 

applications. 

7.  What is the difference between MCB and MCCB? 
8.  What  are  the  causes  and  drawbacks  of  low  power  factor,  describe  how  it  is 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)73  
 
 
  
 
improved? 

9.  Discuss  about  the  different  components  of  LT  switch  gear  and  their  protection 

advantages. 

10. Explain about battery backup. What is the necessity of battery back-up . 
11. Explain about MCB with neat sketch. 
12. Distinguish between fuse unit and switch fuse unit. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)74  
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION TO ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING 

Course Objectives: 
•  To understand DC and Single & Three phase AC circuits 
•  To study and understand the different types of DC, AC machines and Transformers. 
•  To import the knowledge of various electrical installations and the concept of power, power 

factor and its improvement. 

Course Outcomes: Upon successful completion of the course, students will be able to: 
CO1:  Understand and analyze basic Electrical circuits 
CO2:  Study the working principles of Electrical Machines and Transformers 
CO3:  Introduce components of Low Voltage Electrical Installations. 

UNIT-I: 
D.C. Circuits: Introduction to R, L and C elements, Independent voltage and current sources, 
KVL  &  KCL,  analysis  of  simple  circuits  with  dc  excitation.  Superposition,  Thevenin  and 
Norton Theorems. Time-domain analysis of first-order RL and RC circuits. 

UNIT-II: 
A.C.  Circuits:  Introduction  to  sinusoidal  waveforms,  phasor  representation,  the  concept  of 
power  and  power  factor,  Analysis  of  1-phase  RLC  series  and  parallel  circuits,  resonance  in 
series  R-L-C  circuit.  Three-phase  balanced  circuits,  voltage  and  current  relations  in  star  and 
delta connections. 

UNIT-III: 
Transformers:  Principle  of  operation,  equivalent  circuit,  losses,  regulation  and  efficiency. 
Introduction to Auto-transformer.  

UNIT-IV: 
Electrical Machines: Principle of operation of DC machine, performance characteristics of dc 
shunt machine. Principle of operation of a 3-phase induction motor, torque-slip characteristics. 
Principle of operation of synchronous generator. 

UNIT-V: 
Electrical Installations: Components of LT Switchgear: SFU, MCB, ELCB, MCCB, Types of 
Wires  and  Cables,  Earthing.  Types  of  Batteries,  and  Characteristics.  Elementary  calculations 
for energy consumption, power factor improvement and .battery backup. 

TEXT BOOKS: 
1.  D.P.  Kothari  and  I.  J.  Nagrath,  “Basic  Electrical  Engineering”,  Tata  McGraw  Hill,  4th 

Edition, 2019. 

2.  MS  Naidu  and  S  Kamakshaiah,  “Basic  Electrical  Engineering”,  Tata  McGraw  Hill,  2nd 

Edition, 2008. 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 
1. P. Ramana, M. Suryakalavathi, G.T. Chandrasheker, “Basic Electrical Engineering”, S. 

Chand, 2nd Edition, 2019. 

2. D. C. Kulshreshtha, “Basic Electrical Engineering”, McGraw Hill, 2009 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)75  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. M. S. Sukhija, T. K. Nagsarkar, “Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering”, Oxford, 1st 

Edition, 2012. 

4. Abhijit Chakrabarthi, Sudipta Debnath, Chandan Kumar Chanda, “Basic Electrical 

Engineering”, 2nd Edition, McGraw Hill, 2021. 

5. L. S. Bobrow, “Fundamentals of Electrical Engineering”, Oxford University Press, 2011. 
6. E. Hughes, “Electrical and Electronics Technology”, Pearson, 2010. 
7. V. D. Toro, “Electrical Engineering Fundamentals”, Prentice Hall India, 1989 

ASSIGNMENT QUESTIONS 

Unit -I DC Circuits 

1.  Explain the classification of Various Circuit Elements. 
2.  Elucidate in detail on various types of Voltage and Current sources. 
3.  Explain the KCL and KVL with examples. 
4.  Derive the V-I relationships of R, L and C elements. 
5.  Find the Req for the circuit shown in below figure 

6.  State Norton’s Theorem, Thevenin’s theorem, Superposition theorem 
7.  Using  the  Thevenin’s  theorem,  determine  the  current  through  the  4  Ohms  resistor  as 

shown in figure below 

8.  Using the Superposition theorem, Determine the current through the 6 Ohms resistor as 

shown in figure below 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)76  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  For the given circuit below, find the current through 10 Ohms resistor? 

10. Find the current through the resistance RL (1.5 Ohms) of the circuit shown in the figure 

below using Norton’s equivalent circuit 

11. Derive the expression for transient current in R-C circuit. 
12. A series R-L circuit is supplied by the voltage. Determine the expression for i(t) when 

the switch is closed at t=0. 

UNIT-2(AC circuits) 

1.  Define the following terms 

i)Frequency ii) Peak factor iii) Form factor iv) Average value v) RMS value 
vi)Instantaneous value of an alternating quantity 
   Derive  an  expression  for  Average  value  and  RMS  value  of  an  alternating  current 
wave         I=Imsinωt. 

2. 

3.  The below table gives the values of current and time at a half cycle of an alternating 

current 

Time(ms)  0.5 
Current 

6 

1 
13 

1.5 
22 

2 
39 

2.5 
55 

3 
67 

3.5 
75 

4 
59 

4.5 
4 

5 
0 

Assuming the negative half is similar, find out the values of i) supply frequency, 
ii) maximum peak value, iii) mean average value, iv) RMS value, v) the instantaneous 

value of current after 1.4ms and 3.8ms. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)77  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Explain  about  real  power,  apparent  power,  reactive  power  and  power  factor  of  an 

alternating quantity 

5.  Define resonance, derive conditions for resonance in a series RLC circuit? 
6.  Explain the analysis of Series & Parallel RLC circuit? 
7.  Explain the relation between voltages, currents and power relations in a star and delta 

connections in 3-phase balanced system? 

8.  Derive the expression for resonant frequency and bandwidth for a series RLC resonant 

circuit. 

9.  A  series  RLC  circuit  consists  of  R=3Ω,  L=2mH,  C=0.4μF  Determine  the  resonant 

frequency, Quality factor. 

10. Explain  Phase  difference?  What  is  the  frequency  of  AC  power  commonly  used  in 

residential buildings? 

11. Three  equal  impedances  each  of  (8+j10)  ohms,  are  connected  in  star.  this  is  further 
connected to  a 440V,50 Hz, three phase supply. calculate a) phase voltage b) phase 
angle c) phase current d) active power e) reactive power 

12. Determine the RMS Value, Average value, form factor and Peak Factor of 

the given wave form? 

UNIT-3 (Transformers) 

1.  Define transformer and explain the working principle of a transformer. 
2.  Define  ideal  transformer  and  derive  the  EMF  equation  of  a  single-phase  transformer. 

Define transformation Ratio. 

3.  Develop  the  equivalent  circuit  of  a  single-phase  transformer  referred  to  primary  and 

4. 

secondary. 
Interpret in detail about working principle of auto transformer. Derive the expression for 
saving of copper in auto transformer. 

5.  Explain the various losses in a single-phase transformer. 
6.  Discuss the difference of transformer and auto transformer with circuit diagrams. 
7.  Write the advantages and disadvantages, applications of auto transformer. 
8.  What are ideal and practical transformers elaborate your answer 
9.  Define  efficiency  and  regulation.  Derive  the  condition  for  maximum  efficiency  of  a 

transformer. 

10.  A  4500  V/225  V,  50  Hz  single-phase  transformer  is  to  have  an  approximate  e.m.f.  per 
turn  of  15  V  and  operate  with  a  maximum  flux  of  1.4  T.  Calculate  (i)  the  number  of 
primary and secondary turns and (ii) the cross-sectional area of the core 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)78  
 
 
 
 
11.  A 50 KVA, 1000/10000 V, 50Hz single phase transformer has iron loss of 1200W. The 
copper loss with 5 A in the high voltage winding is 500 W. Calculate the efficiency at i) 
25 %, ii) 50 % iii) 100 % of normal load at power factor of 0.8. 

12.  A  400  KVA,  1-  phase  Transformer  has  an  efficiency  of  96%.  At  full  load,  if  the 
maximum efficiency occurs at by 3/4 full-load Calculate that (i) iron losses (ii) Copper 
loss at Full load (iii) efficiency at half-load. 

UNIT-4 (Electrical Machines) 

1.  Explain the working of three phase induction motor. 
2.  Discuss the significance of torque slip characteristics of induction motor. 
3.  Describe the principle of working of DC machine. 
4.  Explain the working principle of alternator with neat sketch. 
5.  Derive the condition for maximum torque under running condition of 3 phase induction 

motor. 

6.  Explain why the rotor is forced to rotate in the direction of rotating magnetic field in a 3-

phase induction motor. 

7.  Explain the torque equation of a DC motor. 
8.  Derive the Torque equation of a 3-Phase Induction Motor. 
9.  Derive the EMF equation of a DC machine. 
10. List the losses in a DC machine 
11. The stator of a 3 phase, 2 pole induction motor is connected to 50Hz power supply. The 
rotor runs at 2995 rev/min at full load. Determine the synchronous speed and slip at full 
load of the motor. 

12. Explain different types of losses in three phase induction motor 

UNIT-5 (Electrical Installations) 

1.  What is ELCB? Explain the working principle of ELCB. Mention advantages 

and disadvantages of ELCB. 

2.  Explain the different types of wires and cables. 
3.  Explain different types of primary and secondary batteries. 
4.  Explain the characteristics of batteries. 
5.  What is the main objective of Earthing any electrical installation and explain different 

types of Earthing with applications. 

6.  Explain 

the  working  of  MCCB.  Mention 

its  advantages,  disadvantages  and 

applications. 

7.  What is the difference between MCB and MCCB? 
8.  What  are  the  causes  and  drawbacks  of  low  power  factor,  describe  how  it  is 

improved? 

9.  Discuss  about  the  different  components  of  LT  switch  gear  and  their  protection 

advantages. 

10. Explain about battery backup. What is the necessity of battery back-up . 
11. Explain about MCB with neat sketch. 
12. Distinguish between fuse unit and switch fuse unit. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)79  
 
 
 
 
ELEMENTS OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS EINGINEERING 

Course Objectives: 
1. To introduce the concepts of electrical circuits and its components 
2. To understand magnetic circuits, DC circuits and AC single phase and three phase circuits 
3. To study and understand the different types of DC, AC machines and Transformers. 
4. To import the knowledge of various electrical installations. 
5. To introduce the concept of power, power factor and its improvement. 
6. To introduce the concepts of diodes and transistors, and 
7. To impart the knowledge of various configurations, characteristics and applications. 

Course Outcomes: Upon successful completion of the course, students will be able to: 
CO1:  To analyze and solve electrical circuits using network laws and theorems. 
CO2:  To understand and analyze basic Electric and Magnetic circuits 
CO3:  To study the working principles of Electrical Machines 
CO4:  To introduce components of Low Voltage Electrical Installations 
CO5:  To identify and characterize diodes and various types of transistors. 

UNIT - I: 
D.C. Circuits: Electrical circuit elements (R, L and C), voltage and current sources, KVL and 
KCL, analysis of simple circuits with dc excitation.  
A.C.  Circuits:  Representation  of  sinusoidal  waveforms,  peak  and  rms  values,  phasor 
representation,  real  power, reactive power, apparent  power, power factor, Analysis  of single-
phase ac circuits, Three phase balanced circuits, voltage and current relations in star and delta 
connections. 

UNIT - II: 
Electrical  Installations:  Components  of  LT  Switchgear:  Switch  Fuse  Unit  (SFU),  MCB, 
ELCB,  MCCB,  Types  of  Wires  and  Cables,  Earthing.  Types  of  Batteries,  Important 
Characteristics  for  Batteries.  Elementary  calculations  for  energy  consumption,  power  factor 
improvement and battery backup. 

UNIT - III: 
Electrical Machines: Working principle of Single-phase transformer, equivalent circuit, losses 
in  transformers,  efficiency,  Three  phase  transformer  connections.  Construction  and  working 
principle of DC generators, EMF equation, working principle of DC motors, Torque equations 
and Speed control of DC motors, Construction and working principle of Three phase Induction 
motor, Torques equations and Speed control of Three phase induction motor. Construction and 
working principle of synchronous generators. 

UNIT - IV: 
P-N  Junction  and  Zener  Diode:  Principle  of  Operation  Diode  equation,  Volt,  Ampere 
characteristics,  Temperature  dependence,  Ideal  versus  practical,  Static  and  dynamic 
resistances, Equivalent circuit, Zener diode characteristics and applications.  
Rectifiers  and  Filters:  P-N  junction  as  a  rectifier,  Half  Wave  Rectifier,  Ripple  Factor,  Full 
Wave Rectifier, Bridge Rectifier, Harmonic components in Rectifier Circuits, Filters – Inductor 
Filters, Capacitor Filters, L- section Filters, π- section Filters. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)80  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIT - V: 
Bipolar  Junction  Transistor  (BJT):  Construction,  Principle  of  Operation,  Amplifying 
Action, Common Emitter, Common Base and Common Collector configurations, Comparison 
of CE, CB and CC configurations.  
Field Effect Transistor (FET): Construction, Principle of Operation, Comparison of BJT and 
FET, Biasing FET. 

TEXT BOOKS: 
1.  Basic  Electrical  and  electronics  Engineering,  M  S  Sukija  and  TK  Nagasarkar,  Oxford 

University, 1st Edition, 2012 

2. Basic Electrical and electronics Engineering, D P Kothari and I J Nagarath, McGraw Hill 

Education, 2nd Edition, 2020 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 
1.  Electronic  Devices  and  Circuits,  R.  L.  Boylestad  and  Louis  Nashelsky,  PEI  and  PHI,9th 

Edition, 2006. 

2.  Millman’s  Electronic  Devices  and  Circuits,J.  Millman,  C.  C.  Halkias  and  Satyabrata  Jit, 

TMH, 2nd Edition, 1998. 

3.  Engineering  Circuit  Analysis,  William  Hayt  and  Jack  E.  Kemmerly,  McGraw  Hill,  6th 

Edition, 1971. 

4. Linear circuit analysis, Raymond A. De Carlo and Pen, Min, Lin, Oxford University Press, 

2nd edition, 2004. 

5. Network Theory, N. C. Jagan and C. Lakshminarayana, McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition, 2005. 
6. Network Theory, Sudhakar and Shyam Mohan Palli, Tata McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition, 2011. 
7.  Fundamentals  of  Electrical  Engineering,  L.  S.  Bobrow,  Oxford  University  Press,  12th 

edition, 2003. 

8. Electrical and Electronic Technology, E. Hughes, Pearson Education, 10th Edition, 2010. 
9. Electrical Engineering Fundamentals, V. D. Toro, Prentice Hall India, 2nd Edition, 1989 

ASSIGNMENT QUESTIONS 

Unit -1 (DC & AC CIRCUITS) 

1.  Derive  the  voltage  and  current  relations  in  3-Phase  Star  connected  system  and  delta 

connected system? 

2.  Define and derive Average value and RMS Value for a sinusoidal quantity. 
3.  Three  similar  coils  A,B,C  are  available  Each  coil  has  a  9Ω  resistance  and  a  12Ω 
reactance They are connected in delta to a three-phase 440V,50Hz, supply Calculate for 
this  load  the  (a)phase  current  (b)line  current  (c)  power  factor  (d)total  KVA  (e)active 
power(f)reactive  power  if  these  coils  are  connected  in  star  across  the  same  supply, 
Calculate all the above quantities. 

4.  A  circuit  of  three  resistor  15Ω,  21Ω  and  39Ω  respectively  joined  in  parallel  is 
connected in series with fourth resistance. The whole circuit is applied with 60V and is 
found that the power dissipated in the 15Ωresistor is 36W. Determine the value of the 
fourth resistance and the total power dissipated in the circuit? 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)81  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Analyze  RL  Series  circuit  excited  by  A.C.  source  with  necessary  diagrams  and 

equations.  

6.  Explain the differences between series circuit and parallel circuits.  
7.  What are the advantages of star and delta connections? 
8.  Explain the KCL and KVL with examples? 
9.  Determine  the  unknown  current  I  through  the  node,  which  is  connected  with  3  more 
branches in which two branch currents are 4A and 6A flowing towards the junction and 
third branch current 2A is flowing away from node.  

10. Analyze  RL  Series  circuit  excited  by  A.C.  source  with  necessary  diagrams  and 

equations.  

11. A coil has a reactance of 25 ohms and an inductance of 1 Henry. If an A.C. voltage of 
200 V (rms), 50 Hz is applied across the coil, find the input current, power factor, real 
power  and  reactive power flow in  the coil  Write a note on the following:  a) MCB b) 
Power factor improvement 

12. Explain the voltage divider and current divider rule for resistances connected in series 
and parallel. b) Three resistors are connected in series across a 12 V battery. The first 
resistance  has  value  of  2  Ω,  second  has  voltage  drop  of  4V  and  third  has  a  power 
dissipation of 12W. Calculate the value of circuit current. 

Unit -2 (ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS) 

1.  Explain  the  power  factor  improvement  methods?  List  out  the  advantages  of  power 

factor improvement in electrical systems.  
2.  Explain the working principle of MCCB? 
3.  Give the construction and the working of a lead acid storage battery 
4.  What is the necessity of earthing the electrical equipment? Give a cross-sectional view 

of the earthing  

5.  Explain how Synchronous Condenser can be used to improve the power factor. 
6.  Differentiate between MCB and MCCB? 
7.  What  are  the  different  types  of  wires?  What  is  the  function  of  fuse?  Explain  about 

different fuses? 

8.  Explain about various types of batteries and write important characteristics for batteries.   
9.  With necessary diagrams, explain various components of L.T. switch gear.   
10. List the different types of cables. What are the advantages of earthing?  
11. Explain in detail about the important characteristics for Batteries.  
12. Describe the pipe earthing used in electrical installations with a neat diagram.  

Unit-3 (ELECTRICAL MACHINES) 

1.  Explain  the  working  principle  of  single-phase  transformer?  Obtain  the  equivalent 
circuit  of  a  single  phase  transformer?  Derive  the  EMF  equation  of  a  single  phase 
transformer. 

2.  Explain  speed  control  methods  &  working  principle  of  DC  motor  and    Derive  an 

expression for torque equation in DC motors? 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)82  
 
3.  Describe the constructional differences between a squirrel cage rotor and wound rotor 
of an induction motor. Discuss their relative advantages and disadvantages. Discuss the 
principle of operation of Induction Motor.  

4.  What is rotating magnetic field? What is its significance? How is it produced? 
5.  Explain  the  construction  details  and  working  of  single-phase  transformer  and  list  the 
applications  of  transformer.  What  are  the  advantages  of  three  phase  transformer  over 
single phase transformers? 

6.   Draw and explain the torque-slip characteristics of an induction motor.  
7.  A 250V shunt motor runs at 1000 rpm at no load and takes 8A. The total armature and 
shunt  field  resistances  are  0.2Ω  and  250  Ω  respectively.  Calculate  the  speed  when 
loaded and taking 50A. Assume the flux to be constant.  

8.  What  is  voltage  regulation  of  a  transformer?  Obtain  the  conditions  for maximum  and 

zero voltage regulation in a transformer. 

9.  A  100  kVA,  2400/240  V,  50Hz  single  phase  transformer  has  an  exciting  current  of 
0.64A and a core loss of 700 W, when its high voltage side is energized at rated voltage 
and frequency. Calculate the two components of the exciting current.  

10. An 8 pole DC generator has 500 armature conductors and useful flux per pole of 0.065 
wb. What  will be the EMF generated if it is  lap connected and  runs at  1000 rpm? At 
what speed it must be driven to produce the same EMF if it is wave connected? 

11. An 8 pole lap connected armature has 40 slots with 12conductors per slot, generates a 
voltage  of  500V.  Determine  the  speed  at  which  it  is  running  if  the  flux  per  pole  is 
50mWb.  

12. What are the losses that occur in a transformer and how can these losses be reduced? 

Unit-4 (DIODES, RECTIFIERS AND FILTERS) 

1.  Draw circuit of a half-wave rectifier and show the input and output voltage waveforms.  
2.  Explain  the  operation  of  a  full  wave  rectifier  with  a  neat  diagram  and  output 

waveforms. 

3.  Explain the characteristics of zener diode? 
4.  Draw the circuit diagram of a half-wave rectifier, and explain its operation 
5.  Draw  the  circuits  of  a  full  wave  rectifier  using  2-diodes  and  4-diodes.  Discuss  the 

relative merits and demerits 

6.  Describe  the  PNP  transistor  in  common  Emitter  configuration.  How  the  transistor  is 

used as an amplifier? 

7.  Explain  the  V-I  characteristics  of  PN  Junction  diode  with  neat  diagrams  and  explain. 

What is Static Resistance and Dynamic Resistance? 

8.  Explain the operation of full wave bridge rectifier with relevant circuit and Waveform.  
9.  Explain the forward and reverse characteristics of a silicon diode.  
10. With  a  neat  circuit  diagram  and  waveforms,  explain  the  working  of  Bridge  rectifier 

without filter. 

11. With the help of suitable diagram, explain VI characteristics of Zener diode.  

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)83  
 
 
12. Illustrate the working of RC-π filter. Draw circuit of a half-wave rectifier and show the 

input and output voltage waveforms.  

Unit -5 (TRANSISTORS) 

1.  Explain the constructional details of a Bipolar Junction Transistor. 
2.  How the transistor is used as an amplifier? Why the BJT is called a current controlled 

device.  

3.  What is early effect?  
4.  What  is  meant  by depletion  region  in  JFET? Explain  with  suitable diagrams  what  are 

the basic differences between BJT and JFET? 

5.  Illustrate the input and output characteristics of BJT in three configurations. Compare 

CE, CB and CC configurations of BJT? 

6.  Differentiate between NPN and PNP transistor construction 
7.  Define BJT? What are the applications of BJT? Explain operation of FET? What are the 

advantages of FET? 

8.  Explain  the  construction  details,  principle  and  working  of  FET.  What  are  the 

advantages of FET?  

9.  Illustrate the working of RC-π filter.   
10. Draw and explain the characteristics of an N-channel JFET. 
11. With a neat diagram explain the operation of an PNP transistor. 
12. With  the  help  of  suitable  diagram,  explain  construction  and  operation  of  P-channel 

JFET. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)84  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
ENGINEERING DRAWING AND COMPUTER AIDED DRAFTING 

Course Objectives: 
1. To introduce the fundamentals of engineering drawing and projection systems. 
2. To develop skills in constructing orthographic, isometric, and sectional views. 
3. To train students in interpreting and creating technical drawings using CAD tools. 
4. To familiarize students with dimensioning standards and drafting conventions. 
5. To bridge manual drafting techniques with computer-aided drafting practices. 

Course Outcomes: At the end of the course, the student will be able to: 
1. Understand and apply the principles of orthographic and isometric projections. 
2. Create sectional views and dimensioned drawings using BIS standards. 
3. Use CAD software to generate 2D engineering drawings. 
4. Visualize and construct solid models from 2D views. 
5. Interpret and produce engineering drawings of mechanical components and assemblies. 
6. Demonstrate drafting skills for practical and industrial applications. 

UNIT – I: Introduction to Engineering Graphics (Conventional) 
Principles of Engineering Graphics and their Significance, Geometrical Constructions, Scales, 
Plain  and  Diagonal,  Conic  Sections  including  the  Rectangular  Hyperbola,  General  method 
only. Cycloid, Epicycloid and Hypocycloid. 

UNIT - II: Orthographic Projections (Conventional and Computer Aided) 
Principles  of  Orthographic  Projections,  Conventions,  Projections  of  Points  and  Lines, 
Projections of Plane regular geometric figures. Auxiliary Planes. Computer aided orthographic 
projections,  points,  lines  and  planes.  Introduction  to  Computer  aided  drafting,  views, 
commands and conics. 

UNIT – III: Projections of Regular Solids (Conventional and Computer Aided) 
Auxiliary  Views,  Sections  or  Sectional  views  of  Right  Regular  Solids,  Prism,  Cylinder, 
Pyramid, Cone, Auxiliary views, Computer aided projections of solids, sectional views 

UNIT – IV: Development of Surfaces (Conventional):  
Prism, Cylinder, Pyramid and Cone. 

UNIT – V: Isometric Projections (Conventional and Computer Aided) 
Principles  of  Isometric  Projection,  Isometric  Scale,  Isometric  Views,  Conventions,  Isometric 
Views of Lines, Plane Figures, Simple and Compound Solids, Isometric Projection of objects 
having  non,  isometric  lines.  Isometric  Projection  of  Spherical  Parts.  Conversion  of  Isometric 
Views  to  Orthographic  Views  and  Vice-  versa,  Conventions.  Conversion  of  orthographic 
projection into isometric view. 

Note: The End Semester Examination will be in conventional mode. 
1.  CIE – I will be in conventional mode. 
2.  CIE – II will be in conventional mode/Computer. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)85  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEXT BOOKS: 
1. Engineering Drawing, N.D. Bhatt, Charotar, 54th Edition, 2023. 
2.  Engineering  Drawing  and  graphics  Using  AutoCAD,  T.  Jeyapoovan  and  Vikas,  S.  Chand 
and company Ltd., 3rd Edition, 2010. 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 
1. Engineering Drawing, Basant Agrawal and C.M. Agrawal, McGraw Hill, 3rd Edition, 2019. 
2. Engineering Graphics and Design, WILEY, John Wiley and Sons Inc, 3rd Edition, 2020. 
3. Engineering Drawing, M. B. Shah and B.C. Rane, Pearson, 2nd Edition, 2009. 
4. Engineering Drawing, N. S. Parthasarathy and Vela Murali, Oxford, 1st Edition, 2015. 
5.  Computer  Aided  Engineering  Drawing,  K.  Balaveera  Reddy,  CBS  Publishers,  2nd 
Edition, 2015 

ASSIGNMENT QUESTIONS 

UNIT-I 

1. 

2. 

 A rectangular plot of land measuring 1.28 hectares is represented on a map by a similar  
rectangle of 8 sq.cm. Calculate R.F. of the scale. Draw a diagonal scale to read 1 m and 
long enough to measure 600 m. Show a distance of 438 m on it. 
 Construct  a  diagonal  scale  showing  yards,  feet  and  inches  in  which  2  inches  long  line 
represents 1.25 yards and is long enough to measure up to 5 yards. Find R.F and mark a 
distance of 4 yards 2 feet 8 inches.  

3.  A line of 1 centimetre represents an actual length of 4 dm. Draw a plain scale and mark a 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

distance of 6.7 m on it. 
 Construct a scale of 1:14 to read feet and inches and long enough to measure 7 feet. Show 
a distance of 5 feet 10 inches on it. 
 Draw a cycloid of a circle of diameter 50 mm for one revolution. Also, draw a tangent 
and a normal to the curve at a point 35 mm above the base line. 
 Construct an ellipse when the distance between the focus and the directrix is 30 mm and 
the eccentricity is 3/4. Draw tangent and normal at any point on the curve. 
 Draw an epicycloid of a circle of diameter 50 mm, which rolls outside a circle of diameter 
180 mm for one revolution. Also, draw a tangent and a normal to the epicycloid at a point 
135mm from the centre of the directing circle. 
 The  distance  between  two  stations  is  100  km  and  on  a  road  map  it  is  shown  by  30cm. 
Draw a diagonal scale and mark 46.8 km and 32.4 km on it. 
 Construct an Hyperbola when the distance between the focus and the directrix is 30 mm 
and the eccentricity is 4/3. Draw tangent and normal at any point on the curve. 

10.  Draw a rectangular hyperbola using the ‘orthogonal asymptotes ‘method when the position 
of a point P on the curve is at a distance of 35 mm and 50 mm from two asymptotes. 
11.   Construct  a  hypocycloid  taking  the  diameter  of  the  generating  circle  and  radius  of 

directing circle as 60 mm. 

12.  Draw a hypocycloid of a circle of diameter 50 mm, which rolls inside a circle of diameter 
180  mm  for  one  revolution.  Also,  draw  a  tangent  and  a  normal  to  the  hypocycloid  at  a 
point 50 mm from the centre of the directing circle. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)86  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIT-2 

1.  A point is 30 mm from the H.P and 50 mm from the V.P. draw the projections of point A, 

in all possible positions keeping the projectors 40 mm apart. 

2.  Draw  the  projections  of  the  following  points  on  a  common  reference  line  keeping  the 

distance between their projectors 25 mm apart. 
(a) Point A is 40 mm above the H.P. and 25 mm in front of the V.P. 
(b) Point B is 40 mm above the H.P. and in the V.P. 
(c) Point C is 25 mm in front of the V.P. and in the H.P. 
(d) Point D is 25 mm above the H.P. and 30 mm behind the V.P. 
(e) Point E is in the H.P. and 30 mm behind the V.P. 
(f) Point F is 40 mm below the H.P. and 30 mm behind the V.P. 
(g) Point G is 25 mm below the H.P. and 40 mm in front of the V.P. 
(h) Point H is in the V.P. and 30 mm below the H.P. 

3.  A straight Line PQ has its end P 20 mm above the H.P and 30 mm in front of V.P and the 
end Q is 80 mm above H.P and 70 mm in front of V.P If end projectors are 60 mm apart. 
Draw the projections of line. Determine its True Inclinations. 

4.  A 100 mm long  PQ is  inclined at  300 to  the H.P  and 450  to  the V.P.  Its  mid point is  35 

above H.P and 50 mm in front of the V.P., Draw its projections. 

5.  A line AB 75 mm long makes 450 inclination with V.P while its F.V makes 550 end A is 
10 mm above H.P and 15 mm in front of V.P. Draw its projections and find its inclination 
with H.P. 

6.  A Circular plate of negligible thickness and 50 mm diameter appears as an ellipse in the 
front view, having major axis 50 mm and minor axis 30 mm long. Draw its top view when 
the major axis of the ellipse is horizontal. 

7.  A pentagonal plane of side 30 mm has an edge on the H.P. Its surface is inclined at 45° to 
the  H.P.  and  the  edge  on  which  the  plane  rests  is  inclined  at  30°to  the  V.P.  Draw  its 
projections. 

8.  A  hexagonal  plane  of  side  30  mm  rests  on  the  V.P.  on  an  edge  such  that  the  surface  is 
inclined at 450 to the V.P. and edge on which it rests is inclined at 300 to the H.P. Draw its 
projections.  

9.  A semicircular plate of 80 mm diameter has its  straight edge on the V.P. and inclined at 
300  to  the  H.P.,  while  the  surface  of  the  plate  is  inclined  at  450  to  the  V.P.  Draw  the 
projection of the plate. 

10.   A plate having shape of an isosceles triangle has 50 mm long base and 70 mm altitude .It 
is so placed that in the front view it is seen as an equilateral triangle of 50 mm side and one 
side inclined at 450 to XY. Draw its top view.  

11.  The diagonals of a rhombus measure 100 mm and 40 mm. The longer diagonal is inclined 
at 30° to H.P. with an end in H.P. and the smaller diagonal is parallel to both the principal 
planes. Draw its projections. 

12.  A  rectangular  plane  of  edges  35  mm  and  70  mm  is  resting  on  an  edge  in  the  H.P.  The 
surface  is  inclined  to  the  H.P.  such  that  the  top  view  appears  as  a  square.  Draw  its 
projections when the edge resting on the H.P. is inclined at 30° to the V.P. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)87  
 
 
                                                     
 
 
UNIT-3 

1.  A square pyramid of base side 40 mm and axis 50 mm has a triangular face on the ground 

and the axis inclined at 45° to the V.P. Draw its projections. 

2.  A cylinder of base diameter 50 mm and axis  70 mm has a point of its base circle in the 

V.P. Its axis is inclined at 30° to the V.P. and 45° to the H.P. Draw its projections. 

3.  A Pentagonal   Prism of 35 mm base side and 70 mm long axis has its axis inclined at 300 
to  the  V.P.  An  edge  of  its  base  is  in  the  V.P  and  inclined  at  450  to  the  H.P  Draw  its 
projections. 

4.  A Hexagonal pyramid of 25 mm base side and 55 mm long axis has one of its slant edges 
on  the  ground.  A  Plane  containing  that  edge  and  the  axis  is  perpendicular  to  H.P.  and 
inclined at 450 to V.P. Draw its projections, when the apex is near to V.P. then the base. 
5.  A right circular cone of  diameter 70 mm and axis  height 80 mm is  resting on one of its 
generators in H.P. The top View of the axis is inclined at 450 to V.P. Draw the projection 
of the cone 

6.  A square pyramid of base side 40 mm and axis 60 mm is resting on its base on the H.P. 
with  a  side  of  base  parallel  to  the  V.P.  Draw  its  sectional  views  and  true  shape  of  the 
section, if it is cut by a section plane perpendicular to the V.P., bisecting the axis and is (a) 
parallel to the H.P., (b) Inclined at 45° to the H.P. (c) inclined at 60° to the H.P. 

7.  A hexagonal pyramid of 30 mm side of base and 60 mm long axis rests with its base on 
H.P.  and one of the edges of the base is  parallel to  V.P.  It  is  cut  by a horizontal section 
plane at a distance 30 mm above the base .Draw the F.V and Sectional T.V. 

8.  A cone with 60 mm base diameter and 70 mm long axis is resting on its base on the H.P. It 
is  cut  by  a  section  plane  whose    H.T.  is  inclined  at  600  to  the  reference  line  and  passes 
through a point that is 20 mm away from the axis. Draw its sectional F.V and obtain true 
shape of the section. 

9.  A cone of base diameter 50 mm and axis 60 mm is resting on its base on the H.P. It is cut 
by an A.I.P.  inclined  at  45° to the H.P. and passing  through a point on the axis,  20 mm 
above the base. Draw its sectional top view and obtain true shape of the section.. 

10.  A cylinder of base diameter 50 mm and axis 60 mm is resting on its base on the H.P. It is 
cut by a section plane perpendicular to V.P., the V.T. of which cuts the axis at a point 40 
mm  from  the  bottom  face  and  inclined  at  45°  to  the  reference  line.  Draw  its  front  view, 
sectional top view and true shape of the section. 

11.  A pentagonal  pyramid of base side 30 mm and  axis  60 mm is  resting on its  base  on the 
H.P.  with  an  edge  of  the  base  nearer  the  V.P.,  parallel  to  it.  A  vertical  section  plane 
inclined at 45° to the V.P. cuts the pyramid at a distance of 8 mm from the axis. Draw its 
sectional front view, top view and true shape of the section. 

12.  A cylinder is cut by an auxiliary inclined plane such that the true shape of the section is an 
ellipse of major and minor axes as 70 mm and 50 mm respectively. The smallest generator 
of the truncated cylinder is 15 mm. Draw its projections and obtain the true shape of the 
section. Determine the inclination of the section plane. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)88  
 
 
 
 
UNIT-4 

1.  Draw the development of lateral surface of a square pyramid with a 40 mm base side and a 
60 mm long axis, resting on its base in the H.P. such that a side of the base is parallel to 
the V.P. 

2.  A cylinder of 40 mm diameter of base and 55 mm long axis is resting on its base on H.P. It 
is cut by a section plane perpendicular to V.P. and inclined at 450 to H.P. The section plane 
is  passing  through  the  top  end  of  an  extreme  generator  of  the  cylinder.  Draw  the 
development of the lateral surface of the cut cylinder. 

3.  A pentagonal prism, having a base with a 30 mm side and a 70 mm long axis , is resting on 
its base on the H.P. such that one of the rectangular faces is parallel to the V.P. It is cut by 
an auxiliary inclined plane whose V.T. is inclined at 450 with the reference line and passes 
through  the  mid-point  of  the  axis.  Draw  the  development  of  the  lateral  surface  of  the 
truncated prism. 
 Develop a lateral surface shows the front view of a truncated cylinder of diameter 50 mm 
resting on its base on the H.P. Draw the development of its lateral surface. 

4. 

5.  Develop a cone of base diameter 50 mm and axis 60 mm is resting on its base on the H.P. 
Draw the development  of its lateral  surface when it is  cut  by an auxiliary inclined plane 
inclined at 600 to the H.P and bisecting the axis. 

6.  A square hole of 25 mm side is cut in a cylindrical drum of 50 mm diameter and 70 mm 
height. The faces of the hole are inclined at 450 to the H.P and axis intersects with that of 
the drum at right angles .Draw the development of its lateral surface. 

7.  A cone of 60 mm base diameter and 75 mm long axis is resting on its base on the H.P. A 
square hole of  20 mm side is made in it such that axis of the hole intersect the axis of the 
cone at a height of 25 mm from the base and the faces of hole are equally inclined to the 
H.P. Draw the development of its lateral surface. 

8.  A pentagonal pyramid of 30 mm base side and 60 mm axis, rests on its base in the H.P. It 
is  cut  by  two  section  plane  while  meet  at  a  height  of  20  mm  from  the  base  .One  of  the 
section  planes  is  horizontal,  while  the  other  is  an  auxiliary  inclined  plane  whose  V.T. 
makes 450 with H.P. Draw the development of the lateral surface of the solid when apex is 
removed. 

9.  A hexagonal prism of base side 30 mm and axis 70 mm is resting on its base on the ground 
with  a  side  of  base  inclined  at  45°  to  the  V.P.  It  is  cut  by  an  auxiliary  inclined  plane 
inclined at 45° to the H.P. and passes through a point 15 mm below the top end of the axis. 
Draw the development of the lateral surface of the truncated prism. 

10.  A cylindrical drum of base diameter 50 mm and axis 70 mm is resting on its base on the 
H.P. A square hole of side 40 mm is cut through the drum such that one of the faces of the 
square hole is inclined at 30° to the H.P. The axis of the hole is perpendicular to the V.P. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)89  
 
 
 
 
and is 10 mm away from the axis of the cylinder. Draw the development of the retained 
cylinder. 

11.  A square pyramid of base side 40 mm and axis 60 mm is resting on its base on the H.P. 
such that all the sides of the base are equally inclined to the V.P. It is cut by a section plane 
perpendicular  to  the  V.P.  and  inclined  at  60°  to  the  H.P.,  bisecting  the  axis.  Draw  the 
development of its lateral surface. 

12.  A square pyramid of base side 40 mm and axis 60 mm is resting on its base on the H.P. 
such that a side of the base is parallel to the V.P. It is cut by a section plane perpendicular 
to the V.P. and inclined at 45° to the H.P., bisecting the axis. Draw the development of its 
lateral surface. 

UNIT-5 

1.  Draw isometric view of a cylinder of 50 mm base diameter and 70 mm long axis when the 

axis is perpendicular to the (a) H.P., (b) V.P. 

2.  Draw isometric view of a Cone of 50 mm base diameter and 70 mm long axis when the 

axis is perpendicular to the (a) H.P., (b) V.P. 

3.  Draw an isometric projection of the frustum of a hexagonal pyramid having 40 mm base 

side, 25 mm long top side and 60 mm height   

4.  Draw an isometric projection of the frustum of a cone of 50 mm base diameter, 25 mm top 

diameter and 60 mm height. 

5.  A hexagonal prism of base side 30 mm and axis 70 mm is resting on its base on the H.P. 
with a side of the base parallel to the V.P. It is cut by an A.I.P. inclined at 45° to the H.P. 
and bisecting the axis. Draw its isometric view. 

6.  A  cube  of  25  mm  edge  is  placed  centrally  on  the  top  of  another  square  block  of  40mm 

edge and 15 mm thickness.  Draw the isometric drawing of two solids. 

7.  A square pyramid rests centrally over a cylindrical block. Draw the isometric projection of 
the  arrangement.  Consider  the  pyramid  has  a  base  with  25  mm  side  40  mm  long  axis 
whereas the cylindrical block has a base 50 mm diameter and 20 mm thickness. 

8.  A cone is  placed centrally  on the top of a cube of 40 mm side which is placed centrally 
over  a  cylindrical  block.  The  cone  has  its  base  diameter  30  mm  and  axis  30  mm.  The 
cylindrical  block  has  its  base  diameter  70  mm  and  thickness  20  mm.  Draw  isometric 
projection of the arrangement. 

9.  Pictorial View of an object is shown in figure using fist angle projection, Draw its (i) Front 

view (ii) top view and (iii) side views. use the direction X for the front view. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)90  
 
 
NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)91  
 
 
                                                      
 
NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)92  
 
 
NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)93  
 
 
                       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ENGLISH FOR SKILL ENHANCEMENT 

INTRODUCTION 
National  Education  Policy-2020  aims  at  preparing  students  with  knowledge,  skills,  values, 
leadership qualities and initiates them for lifelong learning. It also emphasizes language study 
and  promotion  of  languages  through  understanding  and  proper  interpretation.  English 
language is central to the educational eco system. The importance of language as medium of 
communication for personal, social, official and professional needs to be emphasized for clear 
and  concise  expression.  Teaching  and  learning  of  receptive  and  productive  skills  viz., 
Listening, Speaking, Reading and Writing (LSRW) are to be taught and learnt effectively in 
the  undergraduate  Engineering  programs.  Learners  should  be  encouraged  to  engage  in  a 
rigorous  process  of  learning  to  become  proficient  users  of  English  language  by  adopting  a 
deeply focused and yet flexible approach as opposed to rote learning. 

In  this  connection,  suitable  syllabus,  effective  pedagogy,  continuous  assessments  and 
students’  involvement  result  in  productive  learning.  This  course  supports  the  latest 
knowledge  and  skill  requirements  and  shall  meet  specified  learning  outcomes.  The  main 
objectives  of  English  language  teaching and learning as medium of communication and for 
promotion  of  cultural  values  are  embedded  in  this  syllabus.  Efforts  are  being  made  in 
providing a holistic approach towards value-based language learning which equips the learner 
with receptive as well as productive skills. 

The focus  in  this  syllabus is  on skill  development,  fostering ideas and practice of language 
skills  in  various  contexts  and  cultures  in  the  areas  of  vocabulary,  grammar,  reading  and 
writing.  For  this,  the  teachers  should  use  the  prescribed  textbook  for  detailed  study.  The 
students should be encouraged to read the texts leading to reading comprehension. The time 
should  be  utilized  for  working  out  the  exercises  given  after  each  excerpt,  and  also  for 
supplementing  the  exercises  with  authentic  materials  of  a  similar  kind,  for  example, 
newspaper articles, advertisements, promotional material. 

Improve their vocabulary. 

LEARNING OBJECTIVES: This course will enable the students to: 
a. 
b.  Use appropriate sentence structures in their oral and written communication. 
c.  Develop their reading and study skills. 
d.  Equip students to write paragraphs, essays, précis and draft letters. 
e.  Acquire skills for Technical report writing. 

COURSE OUTCOMES: Students will be able to: 
a.  Choose appropriate vocabulary in their oral and written communication. 
b.  Demonstrate  their  understanding  of  the  rules  of  functional  grammar  and  sentence 

structures. 

c.  Develop comprehension skills from known and unknown passages. 
d.  Write paragraphs, essays, précis and draft letters. 
e.  Write abstracts and reports in various contexts. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)94  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SYLLABUS: The course content / study material is divided into Five Units.  
UNIT –I 
Theme:  Perspectives 

Lesson  on  ‘The  Generation  Gap’  by  Benjamin  M.  Spock  from  the  prescribed 
textbook titled  English for the Young in the Digital  World  published by Orient 
Black Swan Pvt. Ltd. 

Vocabulary:  The  Concept  of  Word  Formation  -The  Use  of  Prefixes  and  Suffixes  - 

Grammar: 

Reading: 
Writing: 

UNIT –II 
Theme: 

Words  Often Misspelt - Synonyms and Antonyms 
Identifying  Common  Errors  in  Writing  with  Reference  to  Parts  of  Speech 
particularly Articles and Prepositions – Degrees of Comparison 

Reading and Its Importance- Sub Skills of Reading – Skimming and Scanning. 
Sentence  Structures  and  Types  -Use  of  Phrases  and  Clauses  in  Sentences- 
Importance of Proper Punctuation- Techniques for Writing Precisely –Nature 
and Style of Formal Writing. 

Digital Transformation 
Lesson  on  ‘Emerging  Technologies’  from  the  prescribed  textbook  titled 
English for the Young in the Digital World published by Orient BlackSwan 
Pvt. Ltd. 

   Vocabulary:    Homophones, Homonyms and Homographs 

Grammar: 

Reading: 

Writing: 

UNIT –III 
Theme: 

Identifying  Common  Errors  in  Writing  with  Reference  to  Noun-pronoun 
Agreement and Subject-verb Agreement. 
Reading Strategies-Guessing Meaning from Context – Identifying Main Ideas 
– Exercises for Practice 
Paragraph  Writing  –  Types,  Structures  and  Features  of  a  Paragraph  - 
Creating Coherence – Linkers and Connectives - Organizing Principles in 
a Paragraph – Defining- Describing People, Objects, Places and Events – 
Classifying-  Providing  Examples  or  Evidence  -  Essay  Writing  -  Writing 
Introduction and Conclusion. 

Attitude and Gratitude 
Poems  on  ‘Leisure’  by  William  Henry  Davies  and  ‘Be  Thankful’  - 
Unknown  Author  from  the  prescribed  textbook  titled  English  for  the 
Young in the Digital World published by Orient BlackSwan Pvt. Ltd. 

Vocabulary:  Words  Often  Confused  -  Words  from  Foreign  Languages  and  their  Use  in 

English. 

Grammar:    Identifying Common Errors in Writing with Reference to Misplaced Modifiers 

Reading: 

Writing: 

and Tenses. 
Sub-Skills of Reading – Identifying Topic Sentence and Providing Supporting 
Ideas - Exercises for Practice. 
Format of a Formal Letter-Writing Formal Letters E.g.., Letter of Complaint, 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)95  
 
 
 
 
Letter of Requisition, Job Application with CV/Resume –Difference between 
Writing a Letter and an Email - Email Etiquette. 

UNIT –IV 
Theme: 

Entrepreneurship 
Lesson on ‘Why a Start-Up Needs to Find its Customers First’ by Pranav Jain 
from  the  prescribed  textbook  titled  English  for  the  Young  in  the  Digital 
World published by Orient BlackSwan Pvt. Ltd. 

Vocabulary: Standard Abbreviations in English – Inferring Meanings of Words through 

Context – Phrasal Verbs – Idioms. 

Grammar:  Redundancies and Clichés in Written Communication – Converting Passive to 

Reading: 

Writing: 

UNIT –V 
Theme: 

Active Voice and Vice-Versa. 
Prompt  Engineering  Techniques–  Comprehending 
Appropriate Prompts - Exercises for Practice 
Writing Practices- Note Making-Précis Writing. 

and  Generating 

Integrity and Professionalism 
Lesson  on  ‘Professional  Ethics’  from  the  prescribed  textbook  titled 
English for the Young in the Digital World published by Orient BlackSwan 
Pvt. Ltd. 

Vocabulary: Technical Vocabulary and their Usage– One Word Substitutes – Collocations. 
Grammar:  Direct and Indirect Speech - Common Errors in English (Covering all the other 
aspects of grammar which were not covered in the previous units) 

Reading:  

Writing: 

Survey,  Question,  Read,  Recite  and  Review  (SQ3R  Method)  –  Inferring  the 
Meaning and Evaluating a Text- Exercises for Practice 
Report  Writing  -  Technical  Reports-  Introduction  –  Characteristics  of  a 
Report – Categories of Reports Formats- Structure of Reports (Manuscript 
Format)  -Types  of  Reports  -  Writing  a  Technical  Report. 

Note:  Listening  and  Speaking  skills  which  are  given  under  Unit-6  in  AICTE  Model 
Curriculum are covered in the syllabus of ELCS Lab Course. 
➢  (Note:  As  the  syllabus  of  English  given  in  AICTE  Model  Curriculum-2018  for  B.Tech. 
First  Year  is  Open-ended,  besides  following  the  prescribed  textbook,  it  is  required  to 
prepare teaching/learning materials by the teachers collectively in the  form  of handouts 
based  on 
their  respective  colleges  for  effective 
in 
teaching/learning in the class.) 

the  needs  of 

the  students 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)96  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEXT BOOK: 

1.  Board of Editors. 2025. English for the Young in the Digital World. Orient Black Swan 
Pvt. Ltd. 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 

1.  Swan,  Michael.  (2016).  Practical  English  Usage.  Oxford  University  Press.  New 

Edition. 

2.  Karal, Rajeevan. 2023. English Grammar Just for You. Oxford University Press. New 

Delhi 

3.  2024.  Empowering  with  Language:  Communicative  English  for  Undergraduates. 

Cengage Learning India Pvt. Ltd. New Delhi 

4.  Sanjay  Kumar  &  Pushp  Lata.  2022.  Communication  Skills  –  A  Workbook.  Oxford 

University  Press. New Delhi 

5.  Wood,F.T.  (2007). Remedial English Grammar. Macmillan. 
6.  Vishwamohan, Aysha. (2013). English for Technical Communication for Engineering 

Students. 
Mc Graw-Hill Education India Pvt. Ltd. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)97  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASSIGNMENT QUESTIONS 

Unit 1- THE GENERATION GAP 

1.  Explain the title of the chapter “The Generation Gap” written by Benjamin McLane Spock. 
2.  Write about the positive side of rebelliousness as discussed in the lesson “The Generation 

Gap.” 

3.  According  to  the  lesson  “The  Generation  Gap,”  how  can  unconscious  fears  influence  a 
teenager’s  academic  performance,  especially  when  they  are  following  in  a  parent’s 
professional footsteps? 

4.  Explain the techniques for effective reading and discuss the importance of reading. 
5.  Explain in detail the techniques for writing precisely. 
6.  What  are  some  examples  of  productive  and  unproductive  adolescent  rebelliousness, 

according to the author Benjamin McLane Spock? 

7.  From the lesson “The Generation Gap,” what are some indirect ways in which adolescents 

from educated, professional families express their rebelliousness? 

8.  According to Benjamin McLane Spock, what are the three principal elements that make up 

an individual’s identity? 

9.  Compare and contrast the experiences of adolescent rebellion in different social and family 

contexts, as illustrated in the lesson “The Generation Gap.” 

10.  From  the  lesson  “The  Generation  Gap,”  what  is  the  first  formative  influence  on  an 

individual? 

Unit 2 - Emerging Technologies 

1.  What  are  emerging  technologies  and  why  are  they  important  according  to  the  lesson 

‘Emerging Technologies’?  

2.  How  did  Artificial  Intelligence  (AI)  improve  in  the  2010s  according  to  the  lesson 

‘Emerging Technologies’?  

3.  Give two examples of the everyday applications of the Internet of Things (IoT) discussed 

in the lesson “Emerging Technologies.” 

4.  What  are  two  applications  of  nanotechnology  mentioned  in  the  lesson  “Emerging 

Technologies”? 

5.  Why  is  it  important  to  think  about  ethics  and  social  impact  when  developing  new     

technologies according to the lesson ‘Emerging Technologies’?  

6.  Discuss  how  emerging  Technologies  such  as  Artificial  Intelligence,  Biotechnology  and 
Quantum  Computing  are  transforming  different  industries.  Provide  examples  to  support 
your answer from the lesson ‘Emerging Technologies’. 

7.  What are skimming and scanning techniques of reading? 
8.  Write a passage of about 150 to200 words on any one of the following topics given below 

a) The pen is mightier than the sword. 
b) Actions speak louder than words. 

9.        Write  a  description  of  the  first  time  you  used  ChatGPT  or  any  other  generative  AI 

application. Convey what your thoughts and mood were. 

10. Write an essay on any one of the topics given below 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)98  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a) The benefits of diversity in society 
b) What super power would you choose to have and why? 
c) Technology is ruining our ability to communicate 

UNIT -3 -ATTITUDE AND GRATTITUDE 

1.  Explain the central theme of the poem “Leisure” by W. H. Davies. 
2.  According to the poem, what does the personification of beauty suggest about beauty and 

our interaction with it? 

3.  Explain in detail the meaning of the following lines: ‘No time to see, in  broad daylight,/ 
Streams full of stars, like skies at night.’ Comment on the images and literary devices used 
in this couplet. 

4.  Pick out the images of nature in the poem. Why do you think the poet use these specific 

images? 

5.  Discuss the philosophy of personal growth presented in the poem ‘Be Thankful’. 
6.  According  to  the  poem  ‘Be  Thankful’,  what  is  the  ultimate  outcome  that  comes  from 
practising  gratitude?  Do  you  think  it  is  an  approach  we  should  implement  in  our  daily 
lives? Give reasons for your answer. 

7.  Write  a  letter  to  the  youth  Hostels  association  of  India,  asking  them  to  send  you 
information  about  their  annual  trekking  expedition  in  the  Himalayan  region.  Be  specific 
about the kind of information you seek. 

8.  You have completed your undergraduate studies and require a transfer certificate in order 
to  apply  for  a  postgraduate  course  at  JNTU  Hyderabad.  Write  a  letter  to  your  principal 
requesting for the necessary certificate. 

9.  You are a graduate in Chemical Engineering from NISER, Bhubaneswar. You have three 
years of experience as an Assistant Project Engineer in a fertilizer company. Write a job 
application letter in  response to  an opening  for the post of Project  Engineer in  a reputed 
petrochemical company. Also, prepare a résumé/CV for the same. 

10.  Write an e-mail to a book shop complaining about receiving damaged copies of the book 

you had ordered.  

11.  Explain intensive and extensive reading, and describe the main techniques used in both. 

  UNIT-4 - ENTREPRENEURSHIP  
WHY A START-UP NEEDS TO FIND ITS CUSTOMERS FIRST 

1.  Explain  the  significance  of  the  line  ‘Every  traveler  starting  a  journey  must  decide  what 

road to take’ with reference to context. 

2.  Briefly describe a start-up you know of which has become a success story. 
3.  Write a note on the role and value of the customer for a start-up. 
4. 

If  you  could  form  your  own  start-up,  what  product  or  service  would  it  offer?  Why? 
Describe what your business model would look like. 

5.  According to the text, why do many startups fail even before making any sales? 
6.  What is meant by the quotation ‘Get out of the building ‘in the context of this essay? 
7.  What does the author have to say about markets and their significance to start-ups? 
8.  What is the “real problem” that startups should identify before developing a product? 
9.  What role do customer feedback and qualitative interactions play in validating a startup’s 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)99  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
product idea? 

10.  According  to  the  text,  what  does  the  passage  say  about  verifying  assumptions  with 

customers? 

UNIT V- INTEGRITY AND PROFESSIONALISM PROFESSIONAL ETHICS 
1.  What  is  meant  by  professional  ethics?  Why  is  public  safety  considered  a  core  value  in 

engineering ethics? 

2.  What role do codes of ethics play in maintaining the integrity of a profession? 
3.  What is a professional dilemma, and how can engineers respond to one responsibly? 
4.  Explain  what  is  meant  by  social  contract  with  society  and  illustrate  your  answer  with 
examples  of  professional  responsibilities  mentioned  in  the  lesson  “Integrity  and 
Professionalism. 

5.  Using  examples  from  the  text,  explain  why  professionalism  is  defined  not  just  by 
competence,  but  by  a  commitment  to  ethical  conduct.  Discuss  how  this  is  crucial  for 
maintaining public trust. 

6.  What is SQ3R method? Explain in detail the step-by-step process of effective study? 
7.  Define Report writing? What are the different types of reports commonly used in academic 

and professional contexts? 

8.  Discuss  the  essential  elements  and  standard  format  of  a  well-structured  report.  How  do 
these  components  contribute  to  clarity,  coherence,  and  effective  presentation  of 
information? 

9.  Write  a  report  to  your  professor  in  the  Computer  Science  Department,  detailing  the 
progress  of  your  project  to  develop  a  dynamic  website  for  the  university  where  students 
can  view,  register  for,  and  manage  campus  events.  Discuss  the  work  completed,  the 
challenges faced. If any, and the next steps you have planned. 

10.  Present  the  annual  report  of  your  college's  cultural  association  in  about  400-500  words. 
The  report  could  mention  its  purpose,  the  members  of  its  organising  committee,  its 
activities. And plans for the coming year. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)100  
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS AND VECTOR CALCULUS 

Pre-requisites: Mathematical Knowledge at pre-university level. 
Course Objectives: To learn 
•  Methods of solving the differential equations of first and higher order. 
•  Concept, properties of Laplace transforms 
• 

• 
• 

Solving ordinary differential equations using Laplace transforms techniques. 
The physical quantities involved in engineering field related to vector valued functions 
The  basic  properties  of  vector  valued  functions  and  their  applications  to  line,  surface 
and  volume integrals 

  Course outcomes: After learning the contents of this paper the student must be able to 

• 

• 

Identify whether the given differential equation of first order is exact or not 
Solve  higher  differential  equation  and  apply  the  concept  of  differential  equation  to  real 
world  problems. 

•  Use the Laplace transforms techniques for solving ODE’s. 
• 

Evaluate the line, surface and volume integrals and converting them from one to another 

 UNIT-I: First Order ODE 

8 L 
Exact  differential  equations,  Equations  reducible  to  exact  differential  equations,  linear  and 
Bernoulli’s  equations,  Orthogonal  Trajectories  (only  in  Cartesian  Coordinates).  Applications: 
Newton’s law of cooling, Law of natural growth and decay. 

   10L  
UNIT-II: Ordinary Differential Equations of Higher Order                                     
Second order linear differential equations with constant coefficients: Non-Homogeneous terms of 
the  type  𝑒𝑎𝑥,  sin  𝑎𝑥,  cos  𝑎𝑥,  polynomials  in  𝑥,  𝑒𝑎𝑥𝑉(𝑥)  and  𝑥V(𝑥),  method  of  variation  of 
parameters.  

UNIT-III: Laplace transforms 
10 L 
Laplace  Transforms:  Laplace  Transform  of  standard  functions,  First  shifting  theorem,    Laplace 
transforms  of  functions  when  they  are  multiplied  and  divided  by  ‘t’,  Laplace  transforms  of 
derivatives  and  integrals  of  function,  Evaluation  of  integrals  by  Laplace  transforms,  Laplace 
transform  of  periodic  functions,  Inverse  Laplace  transform  by different  methods,  convolution 
theorem  (without  proof).  Applications:  solving  Initial  value  problems  by  Laplace  Transform 
method. 

UNIT-IV: Vector Differentiation 
Vector  point  functions  and  scalar  point  functions,  Gradient,  Divergence  and  Curl,  Directional 
derivatives, Scalar potential functions, Solenoidal and Irrotational   vectors. 

10 L 

UNIT-V: Vector Integration 
10 L 
Line,  Surface  and  Volume  Integrals,  Theorems  of  Green,  Gauss  and  Stokes  (without  proofs)  and 
their       applications. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)101  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEXT BOOKS: 
 1.  B.S. Grewal, Higher Engineering Mathematics, Khanna Publishers, 36th Edition, 2010 
 2.  R.K.Jain  and  S.R.K.  Iyengar,  Advanced  Engineering  Mathematics,  Narosa   
      Publications, 5th Edition, 2016. 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 

1.  Erwin  Kreyszig,  Advanced  Engineering  Mathematics,  9th  Edition,  John  Wiley  &  Sons, 

2006. 

2.  G.B.  Thomas  and  R.L.  Finney,  Calculus  and  Analytic  geometry,  9th  Edition,  Pearson, 

Reprint, 2002. 

3.  H.  K.  Dass  and  Er.  Rajnish  Verma,  Higher  Engineering  Mathematics,  S  Chand  and 

Company Limited, New Delhi. 

4.  N.P.  Bali  and  Manish  Goyal,  A  text  book  of  Engineering  Mathematics,  L axmi 

Publications, Reprint, 2008. 

ASSIGNMENT QUESTIONS 

UNIT-I 

SHORT ANSWER QUESTIONS 

1.  Define exact differential equation. 
2.  Solve  𝑦𝑑𝑥 − 𝑥𝑑𝑦 = 𝑎(𝑥2 + 𝑦2)𝑑𝑥 
3.  Find the integrating factor of (𝑥2 + 𝑦2)𝑑𝑥 − 2𝑥𝑦𝑑𝑦 = 0 
4.  Find the integrating factor of 
5.  Define orthogonal trajectory. 
6.  Write the general form of linear differential equation in x and y terms  
7.  Write the general form of the Bernoulli’s Equation in ‘y’ and ‘x’ terms 
8.  Define self-orthogonal system of family of curves 
9.  State Newton’s law of cooling. 
2.  10.State law of natural growth. 

=   𝑒2𝑥 + 𝑦 − 1 

𝑑𝑦

𝑑𝑥

LONG ANSWER QUESTIONS 
1.  Solve (𝑥2𝑦2 + 𝑥𝑦 + 1)𝑦𝑑𝑥 + (𝑥2𝑦2 − 𝑥𝑦 + 1)𝑥𝑑𝑦=0 
2.  Solve  𝑦(𝑥𝑦 + 𝑒 𝑥)𝑑𝑥 − 𝑒 𝑥𝑑𝑦 = 0 
3.  3.Solve (1 + 𝑦2)𝑑𝑥 = (𝑡𝑎𝑛−1𝑦 − 𝑥)𝑑𝑦 
4.  Solve(𝑥 + 2𝑦3) 𝑑𝑦
𝑑𝑥

= 𝑦. 

5.  Solve 𝑥 𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑥

 𝑑𝑦

 𝑑𝑥

+ 𝑦 = 2𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑥 

6.  6.Solve  

𝑑𝑦

𝑑𝑥

+ 𝑦𝑡𝑎𝑛𝑥 = 𝑦2𝑠𝑒𝑐𝑥 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)102  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  Solve 

𝑑𝑦

𝑑𝑥

(𝑥2𝑦3 + 𝑥𝑦) = 1 

8. Find the orthogonal trajectory of the family of confocal conics 
         𝑤ℎ𝑒𝑟𝑒 𝜆 𝑖𝑠  𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑚𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑟 

𝑥2
𝑎2 +

𝑦2
𝑎2+𝜆

= 1, 

9. Prove that the system of parabolas 𝑦2=4a(x+a) is self-orthogonal 

10. Bacteria in a culture grows exponentially so that the initial number has doubled in three  
      hours. How many times the initial number will be present after 9 hours 

11. The temperature of the surrounding air is 20oC. The temperature of a hot body reduces  
from 100oC to 80oC in 10 minutes. What will be the temperature of the body after 20  
Minutes? When will be the temperature 40oC? 

12. The number N of bacteria in a culture grew at a rate proportional to N, the value of N  
Was initially 100 and increased to 332 in one hour. What was the value of N after 1½ 
hour? 

13.Abody kept in air with temperature 25oC cools from 140 oC to 80 oC in 20 minutes. Find 

when the body cools down to 35 oC. 

UNIT-II 

SHORT ANSWER QUESTIONS 

1.  Solve
2.  Write the general solution of ( 𝐷3 − 𝐷)𝑦 = 0 
3.  Find the complete solution of  (𝐷4 + 16)𝑦 = 0 
4.  Solve (𝐷2 + 2𝐷 + 1)𝑦 = 𝑒−𝑥. 
5.  Find the P.I of (𝐷2 + 1)𝑦 = 𝑥 
6.  6.Find the P.I of (𝐷2 + 2)𝑦 = 𝑒 𝑥𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑥 
7.  Solve (𝐷2 + 4)𝑦 = 𝑠𝑖𝑛2𝑥 
8.  Solve (𝑥2𝐷2 − 4𝑥𝐷 + 6)𝑦 = 0. 
9.  Define wronskian of two functions and give an example. 
10.  10.Find the wronskian of two functions 𝑥2 and 3𝑥2 

LONG ANSWER QUESTIONS 

1. Solve (𝐷3 + 2𝐷2 + 𝐷)𝑦 = 𝑒2𝑥 + 𝑥2 + 𝑠𝑖𝑛2𝑥 
2. Solve (𝐷2 + 5𝐷 − 6)𝑦 = 𝑠𝑖𝑛4𝑥 𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑥 
3. Solve (𝐷2 + 3𝐷 + 2)𝑦 = 𝑥𝑒 𝑥𝑠𝑖𝑛𝑥 

4. Solve the differential equation 
5. Solve(𝐷2 − 1)𝑦 = 𝑥𝑠𝑖𝑛𝑥 

𝑑2𝑦
𝑑𝑥2 − 4

𝑑𝑦

𝑑𝑥

  + 4y = 8𝑒2𝑥 sin 2𝑥 . 

0)43(2=+−yDDNNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)103  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 Solve (𝐷2 + 4𝐷 + 3)𝑦 = 𝑒 𝑥𝑐𝑜𝑠2𝑥 − 𝑠𝑖𝑛3𝑥 
7. Solve (𝐷2 − 2𝐷 − 3)𝑦 = 𝑥3𝑒−3𝑥 
8. Solve by the method of variation of parameters(𝐷2 + 1)𝑦 = 𝑠𝑒𝑐x 
9. Solve (𝐷2 + 4)𝑦 = 𝑡𝑎𝑛2𝑥 by variation of parameters. 
10. Solve by the method of variation of parameters(𝐷2 + 𝑎2)𝑦 = 𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑒𝑐𝑎x 

UNIT-III 

SHORT ANSWER QUESTIONS 

1. Define Laplace transformation and give an example. 
2. What is the existence condition of Laplace transform? 
3. Find  L{𝑒−2𝑡 (4𝑐𝑜𝑠3𝑡 + 𝑠𝑖𝑛2𝑡)}   
4. Find L{𝑡 𝑠𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑡} 
5. Find L{𝑒−𝑎𝑡 −𝑒−𝑏𝑡
6. State first shifting theorem of Laplace transform. 
7. State convolution theorem. 
8. Define Unit step functionfind its Laplace transform. 
9. Find 𝐿−1 { 𝑠+𝑎
10. Find  𝐿−1 {

𝑠2+𝑎2} 

2𝑠+12

}    

𝑡

(𝑠2+6𝑠+13)2} 

LONG ANSWER QUESTIONS 

1. Find the Laplace transform of 𝑓(𝑡) = {
2. Find (i) L{ 𝑡 𝑒−2𝑡 𝑆𝑖𝑛3𝑡}  (ii) L{𝑡2𝑒−3𝑡 𝐶𝑜𝑠𝑡}. 
𝑒−𝑡𝑆𝑖𝑛𝑡
𝑡
3. Find (i) L{∫ 𝑡𝑒−2𝑡𝑆𝑖𝑛2𝑡 𝑑𝑡
0
𝑡

𝑡
}  (ii) 𝐿 {∫
0

 𝑑𝑡

} 

𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡             0 < 𝑡 < 𝜋
𝑠𝑖𝑛𝑡              𝑡 > 𝜋

4. Using Laplace transform evaluate (𝑖) ∫ 𝑡2𝑒−4𝑡𝑠𝑖𝑛2𝑡 𝑑𝑡

5. Find (i) 𝐿−1 {

6.  Find (i) 𝐿−1 { 𝑙𝑜𝑔

𝑠2
(𝑠2+4)(𝑠2+9)
(𝑠2+𝑏2)
(𝑠2+𝑎2)

}  (ii) 𝐿−1 {
}      (ii)𝐿−1 {𝑡𝑎𝑛−1 𝑎
𝑠

7. Use convolution theorem to find (i) 𝐿−1 {

∞
0
𝑠2
(𝑠2+4𝑎4)

∞
  (ii) ∫
0

 𝑑𝑡

. 

𝑒−𝑡𝑠𝑖𝑛2𝑡
𝑡
} 

}  (iii) 𝐿−1 { 2𝑠2−6𝑠+5

𝑠3−6𝑠2+11𝑠−6

} 

+ 𝑐𝑜𝑡−1 𝑠
𝑏
𝑠2
}   (ii) 𝐿−1 {
(𝑠2+𝑎2)(𝑠2+𝑏2)

𝑠

(𝑠2+4)2} 

8. Using Laplace transform solve the following differential equation 

d2y
dt2 − 6

dy

dt

+ 9𝑦 = 𝑡2𝑒3𝑡; given that y (0) =2  𝑦′(0)=6 

9.  Using  Laplace  transform  solve  the  following  D.E 
       𝑥(0) = 0, 𝑥′(0) = 1 

d2x
dt2 + 2

dx

dt

+ 5𝑥 = 𝑒−𝑡sint;  given  that          

10. Using Laplace transform solve the following differential equation(𝐷2 + 9)y = cos2t;     

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)104  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
      given that  𝑦(0) = 1, 𝑦 (
11. Using Laplace transform solve the following D.E 𝑦′′ − 3𝑦′ + 2𝑦 = 4𝑡 + 𝑒3𝑡; given that      
     𝑦(0) = 1, 𝑦′(0) = 1 

) = −1 

2

𝜋

UNIT-IV 

SHORT ANSWER QUESTIONS 

1. Find ∇(𝑥2 − 𝑦𝑧 + 𝑧2). 

2. Find a unit normal vector to the surface 𝑧 = 𝑥2 + 𝑦2 at (−1, −2,5). 

3. 

If 

𝑎‾ 

is 

constant 

vector 

then 

prove 

that grad (𝑎‾ ⋅ 𝑟‾) = 𝑎‾. 

4. Find  the greatest  value of the directional  derivative of the function  ∅ = 𝑥2𝑦𝑧3   at  (2,1,-1) 

5. 

6. 

Find 

div 

𝑓‾ 

when 

𝑓‾ = grad (𝑥3 + 𝑦3 + 𝑧3 − 3𝑥𝑦𝑧). 

Define 

directional 

derivative. 

7. Prove that div curl𝑓‾ = 0. 

8. Define Irrotational vector. 

9. Define Solenoidal vector. 

10. If 𝐹‾ = 𝑦(𝑎𝑥2 + 𝑧)𝑖‾ + 𝑥(𝑦2 − 𝑧2)𝑗‾ + 2𝑥𝑦(𝑧 − 𝑥𝑦)𝑘‾ is solenoidal then find 𝑎. 

LONG ANSWER QUESTIONS 

1.  Find the directional derivative of 𝜙 = x𝑦2 + y𝑧3 at (2, −1,1) in the direction of  (𝑖 + 2𝑗 +

2𝑘). 

2. Find the directional derivative of 𝜙(𝑥, 𝑦, 𝑧) = 𝑥2𝑦𝑧 + 4𝑥𝑧2 at the point (1, −2, −1) in  

the direction of the normal to the surface 𝑓(𝑥, 𝑦, 𝑧) = 𝑥log  𝑧 − 𝑦2at (−1,2,1). 

of 

the 

PQ 

line 

where 

3.Find the directional derivative of the function 𝑓 = 𝑥2 − 𝑦2 + 2𝑧2 at the point P=(1,2,3) in the 
direction 
Q=(5,0,4)  
4. Find the angle between the normal to the surface 𝑥𝑦 = 𝑧2 at the points (4,1,2) and 
(3,3, −3). 
5. Find the value of 𝑎 and 𝑏 so that the surfaces 𝑎𝑥2 − 𝑏𝑦𝑧 = (𝑎 + 2)𝑥 and 4𝑥2𝑦 + 𝑧3 = 4 
may intersect orthogonally at the point(1, −1,2). 
6. Find the angle between the surfaces 𝑥2 + 𝑦2 + 𝑧2 = 9 and 𝑧 = 𝑥3 + 𝑦3 − 3 at the  
Point(2, −1,2). 
7. Prove that  𝐹‾ = 2𝑥𝑦sin  𝑧𝑖‾ + 𝑥2sin  𝑧𝑗‾ + 𝑥2𝑦cos  𝑧𝑘‾ is irrotional and find its scalar  
       Potential. 
8. Find constants 𝑎, 𝑏, 𝑐 so that the vectors 𝐴‾ = (𝑥 + 2𝑦 + 𝑎𝑧)𝑖‾ + (𝑏𝑥 − 3𝑦 − 𝑧)𝑗‾ + 
       (4𝑥 + 𝑐𝑦 + 2𝑧)𝑘 ‾ is 

Irrotational. 

 𝐴‾ = ∇𝜙. 

Also 

such 

find 

that 

𝜙 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)105  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. Prove that div (grad 𝑟m) = m (m+1)𝑟m−2 
10. Show that ∇2[𝑓(𝑟)] = 𝑓′′(𝑟) +

2

𝑓′(𝑟)where  𝑟 = |𝑟⃗|. 

𝑟

UNIT-V 

SHORT ANSWER QUESTIONS 

1. State Gauss divergence theorem. 

2. State Green’s theorem. 

3. State Stroke’s theorem. 
4. If 𝐹‾ = (4𝑥𝑦 − 3𝑥2𝑧2)𝑖 + 2𝑥2𝑗 − 2𝑥3𝑧𝑘 prove that work done is independent of the  

    Curve joining two points. 
5. Evaluate ∫  𝐹‾

𝑐

. 𝑑𝑟‾  where 𝐹‾=𝑥2𝑖 + 𝑦2𝑗 and the curve 𝑦 = 𝑥2 in the 𝑥𝑦-plane from 

    (0, 0) to (1, 1) 

6. Define Conservative field. 

𝑐

. 𝑑𝑟‾ where 𝐹‾ = (5𝑥𝑦 − 6𝑥2)𝑖 + (2𝑦 − 4𝑥)𝑗 and the curve 𝑦 = 𝑥3 in the  

LONG ANSWER QUESTIONS 
1. Evaluate∫  𝐹‾
     𝑥𝑦-plane from (1, 1) to (2, 8) 
2. Find the work done by the force 𝐹‾ = (2𝑦 + 3)𝑖 + 𝑥𝑧𝑗 + (𝑦𝑧 − 𝑥)𝑘 when it moves a  
    Particle from the point (0,0,0) to (2,1,1) along the curve 𝑥 = 2𝑡2, 𝑦 = 𝑡, 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝑧 = 𝑡3. 
3. If 𝐹‾ = (𝑥2 + 𝑦2)𝑖 − 2𝑥𝑦𝑗 evaluate ∫  𝐹‾
. 𝑑𝑟‾ where ‘c’ is the rectangle in xy- plane   
    bounded by 𝑦 = 0, 𝑦 = 𝑏, 𝑥 = 0, 𝑥 = 𝑎 
4. Evaluate ∫ 𝐹‾ . 𝑛‾𝑑𝑠 where 𝐹‾ = 𝑧𝑖 + 𝑥𝑗 − 3𝑦2𝑧𝑘 and ‘S’ is the surface 𝑥2 + 𝑦2 = 16 
    included in the first octant between 𝑧 = 0 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝑧 = 5. 
 5. If 𝐹‾ = 4𝑥𝑧𝑖 − 𝑦2𝑗 + 𝑦𝑧𝑘 evaluate ∫𝑠 where ’S’ is the surface of the cube bounded by   
     𝑥 = 0, 𝑥 = 𝑎, 𝑦 = 𝑜, 𝑦 = 𝑎 𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑧 = 0, 𝑧 = 𝑎 

𝑐

6. If 𝐹‾ = (2𝑥2 − 3𝑧)𝑖 − 2𝑥𝑦𝑗 − 4𝑥𝑘 then evaluate (𝑖) ∫ (𝑣 𝛻. 𝐹‾)𝑑𝑣 and (ii)∫ (𝑣 𝛻𝑋𝐹‾)𝑑𝑣 
where ‘v’ is the closed region bounded by 𝑥 = 0, 𝑦 = 0, 𝑧 = 0, 2𝑥 + 2𝑦 + 𝑧 = 4. 
7. Use Divergence theorem to evaluate ∬ (𝑥𝑖 + 𝑦𝑗 + 𝑧2𝑘). 𝑛‾𝑑𝑠 where ‘S’ is the surface  
bounded by the cone 𝑥2 + 𝑦2 = 𝑧2 in the plane 𝑧 = 4. 
8. Verify Gauss divergence theorem for 𝐹‾ = 𝑥2𝑖 + 𝑦2𝑗 + 𝑧2𝑘, over the cube bounded by the  
planes 𝑥 = 0, 𝑥 = 𝑎, 𝑦 = 0, 𝑦 = 𝑎 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝑧 = 0, 𝑧 = 𝑎. 
9. Using Green’s theorem, evaluate∫ (𝑐 2𝑥𝑦 − 𝑥2)𝑑𝑥 + (𝑥2 + 𝑦2)𝑑𝑦, where ’C’ is the  
closed curve of the region bounded by 𝑦 = 𝑥2 and𝑦2 = 𝑥. 
10. Verify Green’s theorem in the plane for ∮ ( 𝑥2 − 𝑥𝑦3)𝑑𝑥 + (𝑦2 − 2𝑥𝑦)𝑑𝑦 where C is the  
square with vertices (0,0), (2,0), (2,2) and (0,2). 
 11. Evaluate by Stoke’s theorem ∫ (𝑐 𝑒 𝑥𝑑𝑥 + 2𝑦𝑑𝑦 − 𝑑𝑧) where ‘C’ is the curve 
𝑥2 + 𝑦2 = 9 and 𝑧 = 2 . 
12. Verify Stoke’s theorem for 𝐹‾ = 𝑦2𝑖 − 2𝑥𝑦𝑗 taken round the rectangular bounded by   
𝑥 = ±𝑏, 𝑦 = 0, 𝑦 = 𝑎. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)106  
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADVANCED ENGINEERING PHYSICS 

Course Objectives: 

1.  To  study  crystal  structures,  defects,  and  material  characterization  techniques  like 

XRD and SEM. 

2.  To  understand  fundamental  concepts  of  quantum  mechanics  and  their  applications  in 

solids and nano materials. 

3.  To learn the properties and applications of magnetic and dielectric materials. 
4.  To explore the working and applications of lasers and fibre optics in modern technology. 
5.  To introduce quantum computing principles, Classical bits, qubits and quantum gates. 

Course Outcomes: 

1.  CO1:  Analyze  crystal  structures,  identify  defects,  and  apply  XRD  and  SEM 

techniques for material characterization. 

2.  CO2: Apply quantum mechanical principles to explain particle behavior and energy band 

formation in solids. 

3.  CO3:  Classify  dielectric  and  magnetic  materials  and  explain  their  properties, 

synthesis, and applications. 

4.  CO4:  Explain  the  principles  of  lasers  and  fibre  optics  and  their  applications  in 

communication and sensing. 

5.  CO5:  Understand  quantum  computing  concepts,  Classical  bits  and  qubits,  Single  and 

multiple qubits and quantum gates. 

UNIT-I: Crystallography & Materials Characterization                                                 [12]  
 Introduction:  Unit  cell,  space  lattice,  basis,  lattice  parameters;  crystal  structures,  Bravais 
lattices, packing factor: SC, BCC, FCC; Miller indices, inter-planar distance; defects in crystals 
(Qualitative): point defects, line defects, surface defects and volume defects. concept of nano 
materials:  surface  area  to  volume  ratio,  X-ray  diffraction:  Bragg’s  law,  Debye  Scherrer’s 
formula for crystallite size(qualitative), scanning electron microscopy (SEM): block diagram, 
working principle. 

UNIT-II : Quantum Mechanics 
[13] 
Introduction, de-Broglie hypothesis, Heisenberg uncertainty principle, physical significance of 
wave  function,  postulates  of  quantum  mechanics:  operators  in  quantum  mechanics,  eigen 
values  and  eigen  functions;  Schrödinger’s  time  independent  wave  equation,  particle  in  a  1D 
box, Bloch’s theorem (qualitative), Kronig-Penney model (qualitative): E-k diagram, formation 
of energy bands, origin of band gap, classification of solids, concept of discrete energy levels 
and quantum confinement in nano materials. 

UNIT-III: Dielectric and magnetic materials                                                                      [10] 
Introduction to  dielectric materials,  types of polarization:  Expressions  of electronic and ionic  
polarizations:  orientation  polarization(qualitative):;  ferroelectric,  piezoelectric,  pyro  electric 
materials and their applications. 

Introduction  to  magnetic  materials,  origin  of  magnetic  moment-classification  of  magnetic 
materials,  hysteresis,  Weiss  domain  theory  of  ferromagnetism,  soft  and  hard  magnetic 
materials, applications. magnets for EV, Giant Magneto Resistance (GMR) device. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)107  
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIT-IV: Laser and Fibre Optics 
[13] 
Introduction  to  laser,  characteristics  of  laser,  Einstein  coefficients  and  their  relations, 
metastable  state,  population  inversion,  pumping,  lasing  action,  Ruby  laser,  He-Ne  laser, 
semiconductor diode laser, applications of lasers. 
Introduction  to  fibre  optics,  total  internal  reflection,  construction  of  optical  fibre,  acceptance 
angle,  numerical  aperture,  classification  of  optical  fibres,  losses  in  optical  fibre,  optical  fibre 
for communication system, applications. 

UNIT-V: Quantum Computing 
[12] 
Introduction, linear algebra for quantum computation, Dirac’s Bra and Ket notation and their 
properties, Hilbert space, Bloch’s sphere, concept of quantum computer, classical bits, Qubits, 
multiple  Qubit  system,  entanglement,  quantum  gates  (any  two),  quantum  computing  system 
for  information  processing&  evolution  (qualitative),  challenges  and  advantages  of  quantum 
computing over classical computation. 

TEXT BOOKS: 

1.  Walte Borchardt-Ott, Crystallography: An Introduction, Springer. 
2.  Charles Kittel, Introduction to Solid State Physics, JohnWiley & Sons, Inc. 
3.  Thomas G.Wong, Introduction to Classical and Quantum Computing, Rooted Grove 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 

1.  Jozef Gruska,Quantum Computing, McGrawHill 
2.  Michael  A.Nielsen  &  IsaacL.Chuang,  Quantum  Computation  and  Quantum 

Information, Cambridge University Press. 

3.  John  M.  Senior,  Optical  Fiber  Communications  Principles  and  Practice,  Pearson 

Education Limited. 

Useful Links 

●  https://shijuinpallotti.wordpress.com/wp-

content/uploads/2019/07/optical-fiber-  communications-principles-and-
pr.pdf 

●  https://www.geokniga.org/bookfiles/geokniga-crystallography_0.pdf 
●  https://dpbck.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/Introduction-to-Solid-State-

PhysicsCharles- Kittel.pdf 

●  https://www.thomaswong.net/introduction-to-classical-and-quantum-computing-1e4p.pdf 
●  https://www.fi.muni.cz/usr/gruska/qbook1.pdf 
●  https://profmcruz.wordpress.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/quantum-

computation-and- quantum-information-nielsen-chuang.pdf 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)108  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASSIGNMENT QUESTIONS 

UNIT:  I 
 Crystallography & Materials Characterization 

1.  Describe the seven crystal systems with diagrams. 
2.  Describe 14 Bravais lattice with neat diagrams. 
3.  Define basis, space lattice, unit cell & lattice parameters.                               
4.  Show that F.C.C. is most closely packed than the simple cubic and body centered cubic. 
5.  What are Miller Indices? How are they obtained? 

Sketch the following planes in a simple cubic structure (100), (110), and (111) 

6.  Deduce  the  expression for  the  inter planer  spacing  in  terms  of  Miller  Indices  in  case  of 

cubic crystal. 

7.  State and Explain the Bragg’s law of X ray diffraction. 
8.  Calculate  the  glancing  angle  of  (1  1  1)  plane  of  cubic  crystal  having  axial  length  1.5A0  
corresponding  to second order diffraction maximum for X-rays of wavelength 0.058nm. 

9.  Write a brief note on defects in crystals. 
10.  a) Write notes on Line defects in crystals.   

b) Explain Burger’s vector. 

11.  Explain the surface area to volume ratio in nanomaterials. 
12.  Explain in detail about the characterization of nano particles by using SEM.  

UNIT:  II 
 Quantum Mechanics 

1.  a) Explain the de -Broglie hypothesis. Derive the equation for de-Broglie Wavelength  

and write the properties of matter waves. 
2.  a) Define Heisenberg uncertainty principle.  

b) Write a short note on Eigen values and Eigen functions. 

3.  a)  Deduce  the  1-Dimensional  Schrodinger’s  time  independent  wave  equation  for  an 

electron. 

       b) Explain the physical significance of wave equation.   
4.   a) Derive the expressions for the energy and wave function for a particle moving in one-

dimensional potential box. 

       b) Find the lowest energy of an electron confined in a box of side 0.1nm each. 
5.    Define Bloch’s theorem and explain Kronig-Penney model. 
6. 
 Describe the postulates of quantum mechanics.  
7.    Draw E-k diagram and explain Brillouin’s zones. 
8.    Explain the formation of energy band and origin of band gap. 
9.     Write a note on quantum confinement of nano materials. 
10.   Describe the operators in quantum mechanics. 
11.   a) Obtain the expression for the de Broglie wavelength associated with electron. 
         b) Calculate the wavelength associated with an electron accelerated by a potential of 50V.  
12.   Write a note on the classification of materials on the basis of energy bands. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)109  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIT:  III 
Dielectric and Magnetic Materials 

1.  Define  Electric  dipole,  dipole  moment  and  dielectric  constant,  electric  polarizability, 

electric susceptibility.       

2.  Explain various polarization mechanisms in dielectrics  
3.  Derive the expression for electronic polarizability and ionic polarizability. 
4.  Write a short note on ferroelectricity and Piezoelectricity and Pyroelectricity. 
5.  Explain Hysteresis loop of ferroelectric materials.  
6.  Define  Magnetic  field  induction,  magnetic  field  intensity,  Magnetic  permeability, 

Magnetization & Magnetic susceptibility.      

7.  Classify the magnetic materials based on atomic point of view and write their properties.    
8.  Describe  the  Hysteresis  loop  of  ferromagnetism.  How  can  it  be  used  to  distinguish 

between hard and soft magnetic materials?  
9.  Explain the Domain theory of ferromagnetism. 
10.  Mention the applications of magnetic materials. 
11.  Why do electric vehicles use magnets in their motors? 
12.  How do magnets help in the working of GMR devices used in data storage and sensors? 

UNIT: IV 
Laser and Fiber Optics 

1.  Discuss about the characteristics of Lasers? 
2.  Define  and  derive  the  relation  between  the  probabilities  of  spontaneous  emission  and 

stimulated emission in terms of Einstein’s coefficients? 

3.  Describe construction and working principle of Ruby Lasing system? 
4.  Describe construction and working principle of He-Ne laser? 
5.  Describe construction and working principle of semiconductor Laser diode? 
6.  Distinguish spontaneous and stimulated emissions of radiation. 
7.  What is population inversion? Discuss different methods of pumping. 
8.  Derive an expression for Numerical Aperture and acceptance angle of an optical fiber?  
9.  Discuss the light propagation in step index and graded index optical fibers? 
10.  Explain how optical fiber communication system works along with few applications?  
11.  a) Write a note on the principle of optical fiber. 
   b) Mention the applications of optical fiber. 

12.   a) Write a note on the principle of laser. 
 b) Mention the applications of laser. 

UNIT: V 
Quantum Computing 
1.  Explain the importance of linear algebra in quantum computation with relevant examples. 
2.  Describe Dirac’s Bra and Ket notation. Illustrate their mathematical properties and discuss 

their significance in representing quantum states. 

3.  Define Hilbert space and its importance in quantum computation. Mention its key features 

and characteristics. 

4.  Using a diagram, explain the Bloch sphere representation of a single qubit. 
5.  Compare and contrast classical bits and quantum bits (qubits). 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)110  
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Explain XOR, NAND and NOR gates along with their truth tables. 
7.  Explain  the  phenomenon  of  quantum  entanglement.  Provide  an  example  of  an  entangled 

state and discuss its significance in quantum information processing. 

8.  What is single qubit gate? Discuss the operation of Pauli-X and Pauli-Y on qubit with truth 

tables. 

9.  Explain inner and outer products using Dirac notation. 
10.  Write  a  note  on  evolution  of  quantum  computing  system.  Discuss  about  quantum 

information processing and write its limitations. 

11.  Explain  the  advantages  and  challenges  of  quantum  computing.  Consider  issues  such  as 

decoherence and error correction. 

12.  Mention few applications of quantum computing.  

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)111  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ELECTRONIC DEVICES AND CIRCUITS 

Course Objectives:  

1.  To  understand 
I characteristics. 

the  working  and  operation  of  semi  conductor  diodes  with 

its  V- 

2.  To implement the diodes in various applications. 
3.  To study the operation, configurations of BJT and understand the need of biasing in amplifiers. 
4.  To study the operation, configuration of FET. 
5.  To study the structure, working and characteristics of special purpose devices. 

Course Outcomes: Upon successful completion of the course, students will be able to: 
CO1:  Analyze  the  ope rati on  a nd  V -I  c harac ter i stic s  of  semiconductor  diodes. 
CO2:  Apply the diodes in rectifiers, clippers and clamping circuits. 
CO3:  Evaluate the operation and configuration of Bipolar Junction Transistors (BJTs) and design 

appropriate biasing networks for BJTs 

CO4:.Analyse the operation and configuration of FETs. 
CO5:  Analyze  the  structure,  working,  and  characteristics  of  JFETs,  MOSFETs,  and  advanced 

devices like FinFETs and CNTFETs, and compare modern device technologies. 

UNIT - I: 
 Diode  Characteristics:  PN  junction  diode  –  I-V  characteristics,  Diode  resistance  and 
capacitance,  Diode  models  (Ideal,  Simplified,  Piecewise  Linear),  Diode  as  a  switch,  Zener 
diode – I-V characteristics and voltage regulation. 

UNIT - II: 

Diode Applications 

Rectifiers – Half-Wave Rectifier, Full-Wave Rectifier (Center-tap and bridge), Capacitor and Inducter filters 
for  rectifiers,  Clippers-Clipping  at  two  independent  levels.  Clampers-Clamping  Circuit  Theorem,  Clamping 
Operation, Types of Clampers. 

UNIT - III: 
Bipolar  Junction  Transistor  (BJT):  Structure  and  working  principle  of  BJT,  Current 
components and transistor action, Configurations: Common Base (CB), Common Emitter (CE), 
Common Collector  (CC), Input and output characteristics,  
BJT  Biasing:  Need  for  biasing  and  stabilization,  Load  line  and  operating  point,  Biasing 
techniques:  Fixed bias, Collector-to-base bias, Voltage divider bias, Stability factors and thermal 
runaway 

UNIT - IV: 
Field  Effect  Transistors  (FET),  JFET:  Structure,  operation,  and  characteristics,  MOSFET: 
Enhancement and Depletion modes  – Structure, operation, and  configuration, Common Source 
(CS), Common Gate (CG), and Common Drain (CD) Characteristics. 

UNIT - V: 
Special Purpose Devices: Principle of Operation of – SCR, Tunnel Diode, Varactor Diode, 
Photo Diode, Solar Cell, LED and Schottky Diode 
Advance  Devices:  FinFETs-3D  Structure,  Scalling  advantages,  CNTFETs-Structure  balastic 
transport, fabrication, comparison: CMOS vs FinFET vs CNTFET. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)112  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEXT BOOKS: 

1.  Millman, Jacob, and Christos C. Halkias. Electronic Devices and Circuits. Tata McGraw-

Hill, 1991. 

2.  Boylestad,  Robert  L.,  and  Louis  Nashelsky.  Electronic  Devices  and  Circuit  Theory. 

Pearson, 11th ed., 2013. 

3.  Sedra, Adel S., and Kenneth C. Smith. Microelectronic Circuits. Oxford University Press, 

7th ed., 2014. 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 

1.  Bell, David A. Electronic Devices and Circuits. Oxford University Press, 5th ed., 2008. 
2.  Neamen, Donald A. Electronic Circuit Analysis and Design. McGraw-Hill, 2nd ed., 2001. 
3.  Salivahanan,  S.,  and  N.  Suresh  Kumar.  Electronic  Devices  and  Circuits. 

McGraw-Hill Education, 4th ed., 2017. 

4.  Razavi, Behzad. Fundamentals of Microelectronics. Wiley, 2nd ed., 2013. 
5.  Taur,  Yuan,  and  Tak  H.  Ning.  Fundamentals  of  Modern  VLSI  Devices.  Cambridge 

University Press, 2nd ed., 2009. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)113  
 
 
 
ASSIGNMENT QUESTIONS 

UNIT – I 
1. Write about Diode Equivalent Circuits. 
2. With the help of neat diagram explain about PN junction diode. 
3. Define the following: 

a) static resistance of a diode 
b) dynamic resistance of a diode 
c) diffusion capacitance 
d) transition capacitance 
e) reverse saturation current of diode 

4. a) State the diode current equation and mention each term in formula. 
     b) Explain briefly about Zener diode and its V-I characteristics. 
5. Calculate the forward bias current of a Si diode when forward bias voltage of 0.4V is     applied, the reverse 

saturation current is 1.17×10-9A and the thermal voltage is 25.2mV. 

6. Explain about forward bias using V-I characteristics of a PN Junction diode. 
7. With the help of V-I characteristics curve, explain about reverse bias of a PN Junction diode. 
8. Explain about diode as a Switch. 
9. Explain in detail about Zener diode as voltage regulator. 
10. Write the importance of reverse breakdown region in Zener Diode. 

UNIT - II 
1. Draw circuit diagram and operation waveform for the following: 

a) positive series clipper with reference voltage 
b) Negative shunt clipper without reference voltage 
c) positive shunt clamper without reference voltage 
d) negative shunt clamper with reference voltage 

2. Explain the operation of full-wave rectifier and describe the necessary parameters. 
3. With neat sketch, describe the operation of capacitive filter and discuss the necessary parameters. 
4. A 16:1 transformer with an input voltage of 230v,50Hz is coupled to a Half wave rectifier circuit with a load 

resistance of 1KΩ. Estimate i) Efficiency & ii) Ripple factor 

5. Draw and explain the operation of double-sided clipper? 
6. State and Prove Clamping Circuit Theorem. 
7. Compare half wave, full wave and bridge rectifier. 
8. Explain about center-tapped rectifier. 
9. Derive parameters for half wave and full wave rectifier. 
10. Define the following terms: 
      (a) efficiency 
      (b) ripple factor 
      (c) form factor 

UNIT – III 

1.  Illustrate the Construction & Operation of NPN transistor. 
2.  Explain about input & output characteristics of Common Base configuration. 
3.  (a) Write the comparisons between CB, CE, CC configurations. 

(b) Derive the relation between α, β and γ. 

4. Explain how transistor acts as a Switch. 

5. Explain about input & output characteristics of Common Emitter configuration. 

6. Discuss about Transistor switching times. 

7. Explain about input & output characteristics of Common Collector configuration. 

8. Write the characteristics of Emiter, Base and Collector. 

9.  Illustrate the Construction & Operation of PNP transistor. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)114  
 
 
 
 
 
10. What are various biasing techniques. Explain in detail. 

11. Write the importance of biasing and define stabilization. 

12. Define the following with relevant equations: 

(a) stability factor, S 

(b) stability factor, S’ 

(c) stability factor, S” 

UNIT – IV 

1.  What are the V-I characteristics of n-channel JFET. 

2.  Explain the Construction and Operation of n-Channel depletion type  MOSFETs. 

3.  Give the Comparison of BJT and FET. 

4.  Explain how the FET can act as Voltage Variable Resistor. 

5.  Explain how the MOSTET as a capacitor. 

6.  Justify why FET is a voltage controlled device. 

7.  Explain the Construction and Operation of enhancement MOSFET with neat diagrams. 

8.  Explain the characteristics of common drain configuration. 

9.  Briefly describe about the characteristics of common source configuration. 

10.  With the help of characteristics, write about common gate configuration. 

UNIT – V 

1.   Explain the operation of Tunnel diode with its V-I Characteristics. 

2.   Discuss the construction and Operation of LED. 

3.   Explain the operation of UJT and draw its V-I characteristics. 

4.   Explain how Zener diode act as voltage regulator. 

5.   Explain the Construction, Operation of SCR. Also draw the V-I   characteristics. 

6.   Explain the operation of Photo diode. 

7.   Write about Schottky and Varactor diode. 

8.   Write few lines about FinFETs. 

9. 

 Describe about CNTFET. 

10.  Write scaling advantages of FINFETS. 

11.  Illustrate the comparisons between CMOS, FINFETS and CNTFET. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)115  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prerequisites: A course on “Programming for Problem Solving 

DATA STRUCTURES 

Course Objectives 
1.  To introduce the fundamental concepts, terminology and classifications of data structures. 
2.  To  provide  knowledge  of  linear  data  structures  such  as  lists,  stacks  and  queues  along  with  their 

applications. 

3.  To impart understanding of non-linear data structures such as trees, search trees, heaps, tries and graphs. 
4.  To familiarize students with various algorithms for sorting, searching and pattern matching. 
5.  To develop an understanding of hashing techniques, collision resolution strategies and file organization 

method for efficient data management. 

Course Outcomes: Students are able to 
1.  Understand and implement basic linear data structures like linked lists, stacks and queues. 
2.  Construct and manipulate various trees, including binary search and balanced trees, applying traversal and 

balancing techniques. 

3.  Analyse and implement multi-way search trees and heaps, applying efficient search algorithms. 
4.  Represent graphs, perform graph traversals, and apply advanced sorting algorithms. 
5.  Implement hashing techniques, handle collisions, and understand file organization and indexing methods. 

UNIT – I 
Introduction to Data Structures: Basic Terminology, Classification of Data Structures, Operation on Data 
Structures, abstract  data types, selecting  a Data  Structure,  Linear list  – Introduction, singly linked list, 
Circular  Linked  Lists,  Doubly  Linked  List,  Stacks-  Operations,  Stack  algorithm,  Stack  ADT,  Stack 
applications, Queues- operations, Queue Algorithm, Queue ADT, Queue Applications. 

UNIT - II 
Trees: Introduction, Types of Trees, creating a Binary Tree from a General Tree, traversing a Binary Tree, 
Binary  Search  Trees  (BST),  BST  Operations-  Searching,  Insertion  and  Deletion,  BST  ADT,  BST 
Applications, Threaded Binary Trees, AVL Trees, Red –Black Trees, Splay Trees 

UNIT – III 
Pattern  Matching  and  Tries:  Pattern  matching  algorithms-Brute  force,  the  Boyer-Moore  algorithm,  the 
Knuth-Morris-Pratt algorithm, Standard Tries, Compressed Tries, Suffix tries. 

UNIT - IV 
Graphs:  Introduction,  Directed  Graphs,  Bi-connected  Components,  Representation  of  Graphs,  Graph 
Traversal Algorithms, Graph ADT, Applications of Graphs 
Sorting: Radix Sort, Heap sort, Shell Sort, Tree Sort, 

UNIT – V 
Hashing  and  Collision:  Introduction,  Hash  Tables,  Hash  Functions,  Different  Hash  Functions:  Division 
Method, Multiplication Method, Mid-square Method, Folding Method; collisions: Collision Resolution  by 
Open  Addressing,  Collision  Resolution  by  Chaining  Files  and  their  Organization:  Introduction,  Data 
hierarchy, File Attributes, Text and Binary Files, Basic File Operations, File Organization, Indexing 

TEXTBOOKS: 
1.  Data  Structures:  A  Pseudocode  Approach  with  C,  R.  F.  Gilberg  and  B.A.Forouzan,  2nd 

Edition, Cengage Learning 

2.  Data Structure using C– Reema Thareja, 3rd Edition, Oxford University Press. 
REFERENCE: 
1.  Data Structures using C – A. S.Tanenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein, PHI/Pearson Education. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)116  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prerequisites: Basic knowledge of computer fundamentals, C programming. 

PYTHON PROGRAMMING 

Course Objectives: 
Introduce the fundamentals of Python programming for problem-solving. 
1.  Develop skills to write structured, modular, and efficient Python code. 
2.  Enable students to use Python’s built-in data structures and libraries effectively. 
3.  Provide knowledge on file handling, exception handling, and object-oriented programming in Python. 
4.  Equip  students  with  the  ability  to  apply  Python  for  real-world  applications  including  data 

processing and automation. 

5.  To  introduce  the  principles  of  object-oriented  programming  in  Python  and  demonstrate  their  use  in 

developing real-world applications. 

Course Outcomes: Students are able to: 
1.  Write Python programs using variables, operators, expressions, and control structures. 
2.  Implement  Python  programs  using  built-in  data  structures 

lists, 

like 

tuples,  sets,  and 

dictionaries. 

3.  Apply modular and object-oriented programming principles in Python. 
4.  Handle files, exceptions, and apply Python libraries for problem-solving. 
5.  Develop small-scale applications in Python for automation and data manipulation. 

UNIT-1 – Introduction to Python and Basics of Programming 
Introduction to Python: Features, Applications, Installation, IDEs, Python Syntax, Indentation, Comments, 
Variables,  Data  Types,  Type  Casting,  Operators:  Arithmetic,  Relational,  Logical,  Assignment, 
Membership,  Identity,  Bitwise,  Input/Output  functions  (input(),  print()),  Control  Structures:  if,  if-else,  if-
elif-else, Nested Conditions, Looping: for, while, Nested Loops, break, continue, pass. 

UNIT-2 – Data Structures in Python 
Strings:  Creation,  Indexing,  Slicing,  Methods,  String  Formatting,  Lists:  Creation,  Indexing,  Slicing,  List 
Comprehension,  Methods,  Tuples:  Properties,  Indexing,  Methods,  Sets:  Creation,  Operations,  Methods, 
Dictionaries: Creation, Access, Methods, Dictionary Comprehension, Iterating over data structures. 

UNIT-3 – Functions and Modules 
Functions:  Defining,  Calling,  Parameters,  Return  Values,  Types  of  Arguments:  Positional,  Keyword, 
Default, Variable Length, Scope of Variables: Local and Global, Lambda Functions, Map, Filter, Reduce, 
Recursion  in  Python,  Modules:  Importing,  Creating  User-defined  Modules,  Standard  Modules  (math, 
random, datetime), Packages in Python. 

UNIT-4 – File Handling and Exception Handling 
File Handling: Opening, Reading, Writing, Appending, File Modes, File Methods, Working with CSV 
and JSON Files, Exception Handling: try, except, else, finally, Built-in Exceptions, Raising Exceptions, 
Introduction to Regular Expressions (re module). 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)117  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIT-5 – Object-Oriented Programming and Applications 
OOP  Basics:  Classes,  Objects,  Attributes,  Methods,  Constructor  ( 
),  self  keyword, 
Inheritance:  Single,  Multiple,  Multilevel,  Hierarchical,  Method  Overriding,  Method  Overloading 
(conceptual), Encapsulation and Polymorphism, Application Development: Data Processing Script, 
Basic  Calculator, File Organizer, Simple Data Analysis with pandas. 

init 

TEXT BOOKS: 
1.  Python Programming: Using Problem Solving Approach by Reema Thareja. 
2.  Python Crash Course by Eric Matthes, Learning Python by Mark Lutz. 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 
1.  Introduction to Python Programming by Gowrishankar S., Veena A. 
2.  Python Cookbook by David Beazley and Brian K. Jones. 
3.  Fluent Python by Luciano Ramalho, Automate the Boring Stuff with Python by Al Sweigart. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)118  
 
 
 
NETWORK ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS 

Course Objectives: 
1.  To identify the behavior of electric and magnetic networks. 
2.  To analyse transient and study state responses of combined passive elements. 
3.  To examine two port networks using various parameters. 
4.  Design and construct different of filter networks and attenuators. 
5.  Evaluate transfer function of passive elements for network synthesis. 

Course Outcomes: Upon successful completion of the course, students will be able to: 
CO1: Identify the behavior of electric and magnetic networks. 
CO2: Analyse transient and study state responses of combined passive elements.   
CO3: Examine two port networks using various parameters. 
CO4:  Construct various filter networks and attenuators. 
CO5: Inspect transfer functions of passive elements for network systhesis. 

UNIT - I 
Network  Topology:  Basic  cutset  and  tie  set  matrices  for  planar  networks,  Magnetic  Circuits, 
Self  and  Mutual  inductances,  dot  convention,  impedance,  reactance  concept,  Impedance 
transformation  and  coupled  circuits,  co-efficient  of  coupling,  equivalent  T  for  Magnetically 
coupled circuits, Ideal Transformer. 

UNIT - II 
Transient  and  Steady  state  analysis:  RC,  RL  and  RLC  Circuits,  Sinusoidal,  Step and  Square 
responses.  RC  Circuits  as  integrator  and  differentiators.  2nd  order  series  and  parallel  RLC 
Circuits,  Root  locus,  damping  factor,  over  damped,  under  damped,  critically  damped  cases, 
quality factor and bandwidth for series and parallel resonance, resonance curves. 

UNIT - III 
Two  port  network  parameters:  Z,  Y,  ABCD,  h  and  g  parameters,  Characteristic  impedance, 
Image  transfer  constant,  image  and  iterative  impedance,  network  function,  driving  point  and 
transfer  functions – using transformed (S) variables, Poles and Zeros. Standard T, π, L Sections, 
Characteristic impedance, image transfer constants, Design of Attenuators, impedance matching 
network. 

UNIT-IV 
Filters: Classification of Filters, Filter Networks, Constant-K Filters-Low pass, high pass, Band 
pass, band-stop filters, M-derived Filters- T and π filters- Low pass, high pass 
Attenuators: Types  – T,  π  ,  L,  Bridge  T  and  lattice  ,Asymmetrical  Attenuators  T,  π  ,  L 
Equalizers-  Types-  Series,  Shunt,  Constant  resistance,  bridge  T  attenuation,  bridge  T  phase, 
Lattice attenuation, lattice Phase equalizers 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)119  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIT – V 
Network  Synthesis:  Driving  point  impedance  and  admittance,  transfer  impedance  and 
admittance, network  functions  of  Ladder  and  non  ladder  networks,  Poles,  Zeros  analysis  of 
network  functions,  Hurwitz  polynomials,  Positive  Real  Functions,  synthesis  of  LC,  RC  and 
RL Functions  by foster  and causer methods. 

TEXT BOOKS: 

1.  Van Valkenburg -Network Analysis, 3rd Ed., Pearson, 216. 
2.  JD Ryder - Networks, Lines and Fields, 2nd Ed., PHI, 1999. 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 

1.  J.  Edminister  and  M.  Nahvi  -  Electric  Circuits,  Schaum’s  Outlines,  Mc  Graw  Hills 

Education,  1999. 

2.  A.  Sudhakar  and  Shyammohan  S  Palli  -  Networks  &  Circuits,  4th  Ed.,  Tata 

McGraw- Hill Publications 

3.  William  Hayt  and  Jack  E.  Kimmerley  -  Engineering  Circuit  Analysis,  6th  Ed., 

William Hayt and Jack E. Kimmerley, McGraw Hill Company 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)120  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BUILDING PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION 

Course Objectives: This course is expected to enable the student to: 
•  Provide  fundamental  knowledge  about  buildings  and  the  influence  of  climate,  orientation,  and 

landscaping on building planning and design. 

•  Impart understanding of planning principles 
•  Familiarize  students  with  the  National  Building  Code  (NBC),  its  structure  and  guidelines  for 

residential buildings, 

•  Develop knowledge of key building components 
•  Introduce various finishing works and temporary structures 

Course Outcomes: Upon completion of this course, student should be able to 
•  Understand  the  classification  of  buildings,  criteria  for  site  selection,  the  impact  of  climate  on 

building design, and the role of orientation and landscaping in planning. 

•  Apply the principles of planning and interpret building bye-laws to design functionally efficient, 

economical, and regulation-compliant buildings. 

•  Interpret and implement provisions of the National Building Code (NBC) related to residential 
buildings and understand basic construction techniques including foundations and masonry.  
•  Identify and analyze various types of floors, roofs, staircases, doors, windows, and lintels used in 

building construction and their suitability for different design conditions. 

•  Demonstrate knowledge of finishing works such as plastering, pointing, and floor finishes, and 

explain the types, design, and safety aspects of scaffolding, formwork, and centering. 

UNIT - I 
Fundamentals  of  Buildings:  Building,  Classification  of  buildings,  Site  selection  for  Residential 
buildings, Climate and its influence on building planning; Elements of Climate, Climatic Zone of 
India, Climate and comfort, Earth and its motion, Directions and their characteristics, Landscaping.  
Orientation  of  buildings;  orientation,  Factors  affecting  orientation,  Sun,  Wind,  Rain,  CBRT 
suggestions orientation criteria for Indian conditions. 

UNIT - II 
Principles  of  planning  and  Bye  Laws  of  buildings:  Aspects,  prospect,  Privacy,  Furniture 
Requirements, Roominess, Grouping, Circulation, Elegance, Economy, Practical consideration.  
Buildings  bye  Laws;  Introduction,  Objective,  Principles,  Applicability  of  building  bye  Laws. 
Introduction  to  National  building  code,  Objectives,  Scope,  Structure  of  NBC.  General  Building 
Requirements,  Guidelines  for  Residential  Buildings.  Building  Heights,  Setbacks,  FAR/FSI.  Open 
Spaces, room sizes, Lighting and Ventilation, Means of Access and service ducts. Classification of 
buildings for fire safety. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)121  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIT - III 
Introduction to building construction and site preparation; components of Building,  Foundations: 
Functions & Requirements, Types of Shallow Foundations: isolated footings, combined footings, 
strap footings, wall footings, raft foundations,  Types of Deep Foundations: driven piles (timber, 
precast  concrete,  steel),  bored  cast-in-situ  piles.  Brick  masonry  –  types  –  bonds;  Stone  masonry  – 
types 

UNIT - IV 
Floors, Roofs, Stairs, Doors, Windows: 
Types  of  floors  –  Ground  and  upper  floors  –  Brick  flooring,  Cement  concrete  flooring,  Stone 
flooring,  Tiled  flooring,  Types  of  roofs  –  Flat,  Pitched,  Sloped,  Curved  roofs  Components  and 
classification  of  staircases  –  Straight  flight,  Dog-legged,  Open  well,  Spiral  staircases  –Types  of 
doors – Panelled, Flush, 

Glass, PVC,  Aluminum,  Steel,  Sliding,  Revolving,  Collapsible,  and  Rolling  shutter  doors  –  Door 
frame materials and fittings. Types of windows 

UNIT - V 
Finishing Works: 
Plastering  –  Purpose,  types,  tools  and  techniques  –  Defects  in  plastering.  Pointing  –  Types  and 
application areas – Differences between plastering and pointing. 
Scaffolding, Formwork, and Centering: 
Scaffolding – Definition, purpose, components – Types: Single, Double, Cantilever, Suspended, Trestle, 
Steel  and  patented  scaffolds  –  Safety  considerations.  Formwork  –  Functions,  materials  (timber, 
steel, aluminum,  plastic), formwork  for  slabs,  beams, columns,  and  walls  –  Centering:  Definition 
and role in arches and domes. 

TEXT BOOKS: 
1.  Benny  Raphael  (2022)  Building  Automation  from  Concepts  to  Implementation  Routledge 

Publications. 

2.  Kumara  Swamy  N.  and  Kaneswaran  Rao  A.,  Building  Planning  and  Drawing,  Charotar 

Publishing House, Revised Edition, 2020. 

3.  B.C.  Punmia,  Ashok  Kumar  Jain,  and  Arun  Kumar  Jain,  Building  Construction,  Laxmi 

Publications, 11th Edition, 2022. 

4.  S.S. Bhavikatti, Building Materials and Construction, Vikas Publishing House, 4th Edition, 2020. 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 

1.  Sushil Kumar, Building Construction, Standard Publishers Distributors, 21st Edition, 2022. 
2.  Bindu Balan and R. Sathish Kumar, Climatology and Building Design, McGraw Hill Education, 

1st Edition, 2020. 

3.  Gurcharan  Singh,  Building  Planning,  Designing  and  Scheduling,  Standard  Book  House,  6th 

Edition, 2019. 

4.  Rangwala S.C., Building Construction, Charotar Publishing House, 33rd Edition, 2021. 
5.  M. Chakraborti, Building Planning and Drawing, Chakraborti Publications, 9th Edition, 2021. 
6.  Bureau of Indian Standards,  National Building Code of India (NBC)  – 2016, SP 7, Part 1 & 2, 

Reprint 2021. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)122  
 
 
 
 
 
 
ENGINEERING MECHANICS FOR CIVIL ENGINEERS 

Course Objectives: This course is expected to enable the student to: 
•  Provide Knowledge of force systems and free body diagram to analyze rigid body equilibrium 
•  Comprehend  the  principles  of  Friction  and  solve  engineering  mechanics  problems 

associated with frictional force 

•  Compute the centroid, first moment and second moment of an area 
•  Impart the concept of motion of particles and rigid bodies. 
•  Familiarize  the  concepts  of  work  energy  method  and  its  applications  to  translation, 

rotation and plane motion and the concept of vibrations 

Course Outcomes: At the end of the course, student will be able to 
•  Determine  resultant  of  forces  acting  on  a  body  and  analyze  equilibrium  of  a  body 

subjected to a system of forces. 

•  Solve problem of bodies subjected to friction. 
•  Find the location of centroid and calculate moment of inertia of a given section. 
•  Understand  the  kinetics  and  kinematics  of  a  body  undergoing  rectilinear,  curvilinear, 

rotatory motion and rigid body motion. 

•  Interpret and implement work-energy principle and its applications. 

UNIT - I 
Introduction  to  Engineering  Mechanics–  Force  Systems:  Basic  concepts,  Particle 
equilibriumin2-D  &3-D;  Rigid  Body  equilibrium;  System  of  Forces,  Coplanar  Concurrent 
Forces,  Components  in  Space  –Resultant-Moment  of  Forces  and  its  Application;  Couples 
and  Resultant  of  Force  System,  Equilibrium  of  System  of  Forces,  Free  body  diagrams, 
Equations of Equilibrium of Coplanar Systems and Spatial Systems. 

UNIT - II 
Friction:  Types  of  friction,  Limiting  friction,  Laws  of  Friction,  Static  and  Dynamic 
Friction; Motion of Bodies, Ladder friction 
Centroid  and  Centre  of  Gravity  -Centroid  of  Lines,  Areas  and  Volumes  from  first 
principle, centroid of composite sections; Centre of Gravity and its implications.  –Theorem 
of Pappus. 

UNIT - III 
Area  moment  of  inertia  -  Definition,  Moment  of  inertia  of  plane  sections  from  first 
principles,  Theorems  of  moment  of  inertia,  Moment  of  inertia  of  standard  sections  and 
composite sections; Product of Inertia, Parallel Axis Theorem, Perpendicular Axis Theorem. 

UNIT - IV 
Kinematics of Particles: Kinematics of particles – Rectilinear motion – Curvilinear motion – 
Projectiles. Kinetics of Particles: Kinetics of particles– Newton’s Second Law– Differential 
equations  of  rectilinear  and  curvilinear  motion–Dynamic  equilibrium–Inertia  force–D. 
Alembert’s Principle applied for rectilinear and curvilinear motion. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)123  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNIT - V 
Work-Energy Principle: Equation of translation, principle of conservation of energy, work-
energy  principle  applied  to  particle  motion  and  connected  systems,  fixed  axis  rotation. 
Impulse–  Momentum  Principle:  Introduction,  linear  impulse  momentum,  principle  of 
conservation of linear momentum, elastic impact and types of impact, loss of kinetic energy, 
co efficient of restitution. 

TEXTBOOKS: 
1.  G. Lakshmi Narasaiah (2023) Engineering Mechanics, B.S. Publications 
2.  Reddy Vijay Kumar  K. and  J. Suresh Kumar (2024), Singer’s  Engineering  Mechanics– 

Statics & Dynamics, B.S. Publications 

3.  Shames and Rao (2006), Engineering Mechanics, Pearson Education 
4.  S.S. Bhavikatti (2021) Engineering Mechanics, New age International Publishers. 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 
1.  Timoshenko S. P and Young D.H, “Engineering Mechanics”, McGraw-Hill International 

Edition, 2017. 

2.  Andrew Pytel, Jaan Kiusalaas, “Engineering Mechanics”, Cengage Learning, 2014. 
3.  Bee r F. P & Johnston E. R Jr. Vector, “Mechanics for Engineers”, TMH, 2004. 
4.  Hibbeler R.C & Ashok Gupta, “Engineering Mechanics”, Pearson Education, 2010. 
5.  Tayal D.H.,” Engineering Mechanics–Statics & Dynamics”, Umesh Publications, 2011. 
6.  Basudeb Bhattacharyya, “Engineering Mechanics”, Oxford University Press, 2008. 
7.  Meriam.J.L., “Engineering Mechanics”, Volume-II Dynamics, John Wiley & Sons, 2008. 
8.  P.C Dumiretal. “Engineering Mechanics”, University press 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)124  
 
 
 
 
ADVANCED ENGINEERING PHYSICS LAB 

Course Objectives: 
1.  To provide practical exposure to advanced concepts in solid-state and modern physics. 
2.  To study the physical properties of materials like semiconductors, ferromagnetic, and ferroelectric 

substances. 

3.  To perform semiconductor characterization using Hall effect and band gap experiments. 
4.  To explore the working principles of lasers and optical fibers through hands-on experiments. 
5.  To develop skills in data analysis, interpretation, and scientific reporting. 

Course Outcomes: 
1.  CO1: Demonstrate working knowledge of laser systems and determine their characteristics. 
2.  CO2: Demonstrate working knowledge of optical fiber parameters through experimental study. 
3.  CO3:  Determine  key  electrical,  magnetic,  and  optical  properties  of  semiconductors  and  other 

functional materials. 

4.  CO4: Characterize semiconductors using Hall effect and energy gap measurement techniques. 
5.  CO5: Apply scientific methods for accurate data collection, analysis, and technical report writing. 

List of Experiments: 
1.  A)    Determination of numerical aperture of a given optical fibre. 
B)  Determination of bending losses of a given optical fibre. 
2.  Determination of wavelength of a laser using diffraction grating. 
3.  Study of V-I & L-I characteristics of a given laser diode. 
4.  Determination of Hall coefficient and carrier concentration of a given semiconductor. 
5.  Study of B-H curve of a ferromagnetic material. 
6.  Determination of dielectric constant of a given material. 
7.  Determination of magnetic moment of a bar magnet and horizontal earth magnetic field. 
8.  Determination of energy gap of a semiconductor. 
9.  Determination of work function and Planck’s constant using photo electric effect.  
10. Study of V-I characteristics and determination of fill factor of solar cell. 

Note: Any 8 experiments are to be performed. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)125  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROGRAMMING FOR PROBLEM SOLVING LAB 

[Note: The programs may be executed using any available Open Source/ Freely available IDE some of 
the Tools available are: 
CodeLite: http://codelite.org/ 
Code::Blocks:http://www.codeblocks.org/ 
DevCpp:http://www.bloodshed.net/devcpp.html Eclipse: 
http://www.eclipse.org 
This list is not exhaustive and is NOT in any order of preference] 

Course Objectives: The students will learn the following: 
1.  To familiarize students with the use of an IDE to create, compile, run and debug C programs. 
2.  To provide an understanding of the fundamental steps involved in program development. 
3.  To introduce the basic concepts of C such as operators, control structures, and functions for problem-

solving. 

4.  To  develop  knowledge  of  modular  programming,  arrays  and  dynamic  memory  allocation  for  writing 

efficient programs. 

5.  To  expose  students  to  file  handling  concepts  including  creating,  reading  and  writing  text  and  binary 

files. 

Course Outcomes: Students are able to: 
Demonstrate understanding and application of fundamental C programming constructs. 
Develop, trace, and analyze C programs using control structures. 
Decompose complex problems into modular solutions using functions. 
Implement string manipulation and file handling techniques. 
Apply and evaluate searching and sorting algorithms. 

PRACTICE SESSIONS: 

Simple numeric problems: 

a)  Write a program for finding the max and min from the three numbers. 
b)  Write the program for the simple, compound interest. 
c)  Write a program that prints a multiplication table for a given number and the number of 

rows in the table. For example, for a number 5 and rows = 3, the output should be: 

5 x 1 = 5 
5 x 2 = 10 
5 x 3 = 15 

d)  Write a program that shows the binary equivalent of a given positive number between 0 to 255. 

Expression Evaluation: 

a)  Write  a  C  program,  which  takes  two  integer  operands  and  one  operator  from  the  user, 
performs the operation and then prints the result. (Consider the operators +,-,*, /, % and 
use Switch Statement). 

b)  Write a program that finds if a given number is a prime number. 
c)  Write a C program to find the sum of individual digits of a positive integer and test given 

number is palindrome. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)126  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
d)  A Fibonacci sequence is defined as follows: the first and second terms in the sequence are 
0 and 1. Subsequent terms are found by adding the preceding two terms in the sequence. 
Write a C program to generate the first n terms of the sequence. 

Arrays, Pointers and Functions: 

a)  Write a C program to find the minimum, maximum and average in an array of integers. 
b)  Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following: 

I.  Addition of Two Matrices 
II.  Multiplication of Two Matrices 

c)  Write a program for reading elements using a pointer into an array and display the values 

using the array. 

d)  Write a program for display values reverse order from an array using a pointer. 

Files: 

a)  Write  a  C  program  which  copies  one  file  to  another,  replacing  all  lowercase  characters 

with  their uppercase equivalents. 

b)  Write a C program to merge two files into a third file (i.e., the contents of the first file 

followed by those of the second are put in the third file). 

Strings: 

a)  Write a C program that uses functions to perform the following operations: 
To insert a sub-string into a given main string from a given position. 
To delete n Characters from a given position in a given string 

I. 
II. 

b)  Write a C program to determine if the given string is a palindrome or not (Spelled same in 

both directions with or without a meaning like madam, civic, noon, abcba, etc.) 

c)  Write a C program that displays the position of a character ch in the string S or  – 1 if S 

doesn’t contain ch. 

d)  Write a C program to count the lines, words and characters in a given text. 

Sorting and Searching: 

a)  Write a C program that uses non-recursive function to search for a Key value in a given 

list of integers using linear search method. 

b)  Write a C program that uses non-recursive function to search for a Key value in a given 

sorted list of integers using binary search method. 

c)  Write a C program that implements the Bubble sort method to sort a given list of integers 

in  ascending order. 

d)  Write a C program that sorts the given array of integers using selection sort in descending order 
e)  Write a C program that sorts the given array of integers using insertion sort in ascending order 
f)  Write a C program that sorts a given array of names. 

TEXT BOOKS: 

1.  Program  Design  in  C,  Jeri  R.  Hanly  and  Elliot  B.Koffman,  Problem  solving  7th 

Edition, Pearson. 

2.  C  Programming  and  Data  Structures,  B.A.  Forouzan  and  R.F.  Gilberg,  (3rd  Edition) 

Cengage Learning.  

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)127  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REFERENCE BOOKS: 

1.  The  C  Programming  Language,  Brian  W.  Kernighan  and  Dennis  M.  Ritchie,  2nd 

Edition, Prentice Hall of India 

2.  Computer fundamentals, E. Balagurusamy, and C, 2nd Edition, McGraw-Hill 
3.  Let Us C, Yashavant Kanetkar, , 18th Edition, BPB 
4.  How to solve it by Computer, R.G. Dromey, (16th Impression), Pearson 
5.  Programming in C, Stephen G. Kochan, Fourth Edition, Pearson Education. 
6.  C: The Complete Reference, Herbert Schildt,  4th Edition, Mc Graw Hill,  
7.  Byron Gottfried, Schaum’s Outline of Programming with C, McGraw-Hill 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)128  
 
 
ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND COMMUNICATION SKILLS    LAB 

The English Language and Communication Skills (ELCS) Lab focuses on listening and speaking skills, 
particularly on the production and practice of sounds of language and familiarizes the students with the use 
of English in everyday situations both in formal and informal contexts. 

Listening Skills: 
Objectives 

1.  To enable students develop their active listening skills 
2.  To equip students with necessary training in listening, so that they can comprehend the speech  of 

people from different linguistic backgrounds 

Speaking Skills: 

3.  To improve their pronunciation and neutralize accent 
4.  To enable students express themselves fluently and appropriately 
5.  To practise speaking in social and professional contexts 

Learning Outcomes: Students will be able to: 

1.  Listen actively and identify important information in spoken texts 
2.  Interpret the speech and infer the intention of the speaker 
3.  Improve their accent for intelligibility 
4.  Speak fluently with clarity and confidence 
5.  Use the language in real life situations 

Syllabus: English Language and Communication Skills Lab (ELCS) shall have two parts: 

a.  Computer Assisted Language Learning (CALL) Lab which focusses on listening skills 
b.  Interactive Communication Skills (ICS) Lab which focusses on speaking skills 

The  following  course  content  is  prescribed  for  the  English  Language  and  Communication  Skills  Lab. 
Exercise – I 
CALL Lab: 
Instruction: Speech Sounds-Listening Skill - Importance – Purpose - Types- Barriers- Active Listening 
Practice:  Listening to Distinguish Speech Sounds (Minimal Pairs) - Testing Exercises 
ICS Lab: 
❖  Diagnostic Test – Activity titled ‘Express Your View’ 
Instruction:  Spoken and Written language - Formal and Informal English - Greetings - Introducing Oneself 
and Others 
Practice: Any Ice-Breaking Activity 

Exercise – II CALL Lab: 
Instruction:  Listening vs. Hearing - Barriers to Listening 
Practice: Listening for General Information  -  Multiple  Choice  Questions  -  Listening  Comprehension 
Exercises (It is essential to identify a suitable passage with exercises for practice.) 
ICS Lab: 
Instruction: Features of Good Conversation – Strategies for Effective Communication 
Practice:  Role  Play  Activity  -  Situational  Dialogues  –Expressions  used  in  Various  Situations  –Making 
Requests and Seeking Permissions – Taking Leave - Telephone Etiquette 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)129  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Exercise - III CALL Lab: 
Instruction:  Errors in Pronunciation – Tips for Neutralizing Mother Tongue Influence (MTI) 
Practice: Differences between British and American Pronunciation –Listening Comprehension Exercises 
ICS Lab: 
Instruction:  Describing Objects, Situations, Places, People and Events 
Practice:  Picture  Description  Activity –  Looking  at  a  Picture  and  Describing  Objects,  Situations,  Places, 
People and Events (A wide range of Materials / Handouts are to be made available in the lab.) 

Exercise – IV CALL Lab: 
Instruction:  Techniques for Effective Listening 
Practice:  Listening  for  Specific  Details  -  Listening  -  Gap  Fill  Exercises  -  Listening  Comprehension 
Exercises 
(It is essential to identify a suitable passage with exercises for practice.) 
ICS Lab: 
Instruction: How to Tell a Good Story - Story Star- Sequencing-Creativity 
Practice:  Activity on Telling and Retelling Stories - Collage 

Exercise – V CALL Lab: 
Instruction: Identifying the literal and implied meaning 
Practice: Listening for Evaluation - Write the Summary – Listening Comprehension Exercises 
(It is essential to identify a suitable passage with exercises for practice.) 
ICS Lab: 
Instruction: Understanding Non-Verbal Communication 
Practice: Silent Speech - Dumb Charades Activity 
❖  Post-Assessment Test on ‘Express Your View’ 

Minimum Requirement of infrastructural facilities for ELCS Lab: 

1.  Computer Assisted Language Learning (CALL) Lab: 
The Computer Assisted Language Learning Lab has to accommodate 35 students with 35 systems, with 
one Master Console, LAN facility and English language learning software for self- study by students. 
System Requirement (Hardware component): 
Computer  network  with  LAN  facility  (minimum  35  systems  with  multimedia)  with  the  following 
specifications: 

i) 
ii) 

Computers with Suitable Configuration 
High Fidelity Headphones 

2.  Interactive Communication Skills (ICS) Lab: 

The Interactive Communication Skills Lab: A Spacious room with movable chairs and audio- visual 
aids  with  a  Public  Address  System,  a  T.  V.  or  LCD,  a  digital  stereo  – audio  &  video  system  and 
camcorder etc. 

Note: English Language Teachers are requested to prepare Materials / Handouts for each Activity for the 
Use of those Materials in CALL & ICS Labs. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)130  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suggested Software: 

•  Cambridge Advanced Learners’ English Dictionary with CD. 
•  Grammar Made Easy by Darling Kindersley. 
•  Punctuation Made Easy by Darling Kindersley. 
•  Oxford Advanced Learner’s Compass, 10th Edition. 
•  English in Mind (Series 1-4), Herbert Puchta and Jeff Stranks with Meredith Levy, Cambridge. 

•  English  Pronunciation  in  Use  (Elementary,  Intermediate,  Advanced)  Cambridge  University 

Press. 

•  English Vocabulary in Use (Elementary, Intermediate, Advanced) Cambridge University Press. 
•  TOEFL & GRE (KAPLAN, AARCO & BARRONS, USA, Cracking GRE by CLIFFS). 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 

1.  Shobha,  KN  &  Rayen,  J.  Lourdes.  (2019).  Communicative  English  –  A  workbook.  Cambridge 

University Press 

2.  Board of  Editors. (2016). ELCS Lab Manual: A Workbook for CALL and  ICS Lab Activities. 

Orient BlackSwan Pvt. Ltd. 

3.  Mishra,  Veerendra  et  al.  (2020).  English  Language  Skills:  A  Practical  Approach.  Cambridge 

University Press 

4.  (2022).  English  Language  Communication  Skills  –  Lab  Manual  cum  Workbook.  Cengage 

Learning India Pvt. Ltd. 

5.  Ur,  Penny  and  Wright,  Andrew.  2022.  Five  Minute  Activities  –  A  Resource  Book  for  Language 

Teachers. Cambridge University Press. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)131  
 
 
 
 
 
 
ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY LAB 

Course Description:  The course includes experiments based on fundamental principles of chemistry 
essential for engineering students, aiming to develop practical skills and reinforce theoretical concepts. 

Course Objectives 

1.  Students  will  understand  and  perform  experiments  based  on  core  chemical  principles 

relevant to engineering applications. 

2.  Students  will  learn  to  estimate  the  hardness  of  water  to  assess  its  suitability  for 

drinking purposes. 

3.  Students will acquire the ability to perform acid-base titrations using instrumental methods 

such as conductometry, potentiometry, and pH metry. 

4.  Students will gain hands-on experience in synthesizing polymers like Bakelite and Nylon – 

6, 6 in the laboratory. 
learn 

5.  Students  will 

to  determine 

the  unknown  concentration  of  potassium 

permanganate (KMnO4) using a calibration curve. 

Course Outcomes: 

1.  Students  will  develop  practical  skills  through  hands-on  chemistry  experiments  relevant 

to engineering. 

2.  Students  will  learn  to  determine  important  parameters  such  as  water  hardness  and  the 

corrosion rate of mild steel under various conditions. 

3.  Students will be able to apply techniques like conductometry, potentiometry, and pH metry 

to determine concentrations or equivalence points in acid-base reactions. 

4.  Students will gain experience in synthesizing polymers such as Bakelite and Nylon-6,6. 
5.  Students  will  understand  the  working  principle  of  colorimetry  and  the  relationship 

between absorbance and concentration (Beer-Lambert Law). 

List of Experiments: 

I.  Volumetric Analysis: Estimation of Hardness of water by EDTA Complexometry method. 
II.  Conductometry: 

1.  Estimation of the concentration of strong acid by Conductometry. 
2.  Estimation  of  the  concentration  of  strong  and  weak  acid  in  an  acid  mixture  by 

Conductometry. 

III.  Potentiometry: 

1.  Estimation of concentration of Fe+2ion by Potentiometry using KMnO4. 
2.  Estimation  of  concentration  of  strong  acid  with  strong  base  by  Potentiometry 

using quinhydrone 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)132  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV.  pH Metry: Determination of an acid concentration using pH meter. 
V.  Colorimetry: Verification of Lambert-Beer’s law using KMnO4. 
VI.  Preparations: 

1.  Preparation of Bakelite. 
2.  Preparation Nylon – 6, 6. 

VII.  Corrosion: Determination  of  rate of  corrosion of  mild  steel in the presence and  absence 

of inhibitor. 

VIII.  Virtual lab experiments: 

1.  Construction of Fuel cell and it’s working. 
2.  Smart materials for Biomedical applications 
3.  Batteries for electrical vehicles. 
4.  Functioning of solar cell and its applications. 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 

1.  Lab  manual  for  Engineering  chemistry  by  B.  Ramadevi  and  P.  Aparna,  S  Chand 

Publications, New Delhi (2022) 

2.  Vogel’s text book of practical organic chemistry 5th edition 
3.  Inorganic Quantitative analysis by A.I. Vogel, ELBS Publications. 
4.  College  Practical  Chemistry  by  V.K.  Ahluwalia,  Narosa  Publications  Ltd.  New  Delhi 

(2007). 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)133  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BASIC ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING LAB 

Course Objectives: 
1.  To measure the electrical parameters for  different types  of  DC and  AC  circuits  using  conventional 

and theorems approach. 

2.  To study the transient response of various R, L and C circuits using different excitations. 
3.  To determine the performance of different types of DC, AC machines and Transformers. 

Course Outcomes: Upon successful completion of the course, students will be able to:  
CO1: Verify the basic Electrical circuits through different experiments. 
CO2:  Evaluate  the  performance  calculations  of  Electrical  Machines  and Transformers  through  various 

testing methods. 

CO3: Analyze the transient responses of R, L and C circuits for different input conditions. 

List of experiments/demonstrations: 
PART- A (compulsory) 
1.  Verification of KVL and KCL 
2.  Verification of Thevenin’s and Norton’s theorem 
3.  Transient Response of Series RL and RC circuits for DC excitation 
4.  Resonance in series RLC circuit 
5.  Calculations and Verification of Impedance and Current of RL, RC and RLC series circuits 
6.  Measurement of Voltage, Current and Real Power in primary and Secondary Circuits of a Single-

Phase Transformer 

7.  Performance Characteristics of a DC Shunt Motor 
8.  Torque-Speed Characteristics of a Three-phase Induction Motor. 

PART-B (any two experiments from the given list) 
1.  Verification of Superposition theorem. 
2.  Three Phase Transformer: Verification of Relationship between Voltages and Currents (Star-Delta, 

Delta-Delta, Delta-star, Star-Star) 

3.  Load Test on Single Phase Transformer (Calculate Efficiency and Regulation) 
4.  Measurement of Active and Reactive Power in a balanced Three-phase circuit 
5.  No-Load Characteristics of a Three-phase Alternator 

TEXT BOOKS: 
1.  D.P.  Kothari  and  I.  J.  Nagrath,  “Basic  Electrical Engineering”,  Tata  McGraw  Hill,  4th  Edition, 

2019. 

2.  MS Naidu and S Kamakshaiah, “Basic Electrical Engineering”, Tata McGraw Hill, 2nd  Edition, 

2008. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)134  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REFERENCE BOOKS: 

1.  P. Ramana, M. Suryakalavathi, G.T.Chandrasheker,”Basic Electrical Engineering”, S. Chand, 2nd 

Edition, 2019. 

2.  D. C. Kulshreshtha, “Basic Electrical Engineering”, McGraw Hill, 2009 
3.  M.  S.  Sukhija,  T.  K.  Nagsarkar,  “Basic  Electrical  and  Electronics  Engineering”,  Oxford,  1st 

Edition, 2012. 

4.  Abhijit  Chakrabarthi,  Sudipta  Debnath,  Chandan  Kumar  Chanda,  “Basic  Electrical  Engineering”, 

2nd  Edition, McGraw Hill, 2021. 

5.  L. S. Bobrow, “Fundamentals of Electrical Engineering”, Oxford University Press, 2011. 
6.  E. Hughes, “Electrical and Electronics Technology”, Pearson, 2010. 
7.  V. D. Toro, “Electrical Engineering Fundamentals”, Prentice Hall India, 1989. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)135  
 
 
 
 
 
 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING LAB 

Prerequisites: Introduction to Basic Electrical Engineering. 

Course Objectives: 
1.  To measure the electrical parameters for different types of DC and AC circuits using conventional and 

theorems approach. 

2.  To study the transient response of various R, L and C circuits using different excitations. 
3.  To determine the performance of different types of DC, AC machines and Transformers. 

Course Outcomes: Upon successful completion of the course,  student must be able to: 
CO1:   Verify the basic Electrical circuits through different experiments. 
CO2:  Evaluate the performance calculations of Electrical Machines and Transformers through 

various testing methods. 

CO3:  Analyze the transient responses of R, L and C circuits for different input conditions. 

List of experiments/demonstrations: 
PART- A (compulsory) 
1. Verification of KVL and KCL 
2. Verification of Thevenin’s and Norton’s theorem 
3. Transient Response of Series RL and RC circuits for DC excitation 
4. Resonance in series RLC circuit 
5. Calculations and Verification of Impedance and Current of RLC series and Parallel AC circuits 
6.  Measurement  of  Voltage,  Current  and  Real  Power  in  primary  and  Secondary  Circuits  of  a  Single-

Phase Transformer 

7. Performance Characteristics of a DC Shunt Motor 
8. Torque-Speed Characteristics of a Three-phase Induction Motor. 

PART-B (any two experiments from the given list) 
1. Verification of Superposition theorem. 
2. Load Test on Single Phase Transformer (Calculate Efficiency and Regulation) 
3. Measurement of Active and Reactive Power in a balanced Three-phase circuit 
4. No-Load Characteristics of a Three-phase Alternator 

TEXT BOOKS: 
1. D.P. Kothari and I. J. Nagrath, “Basic Electrical Engineering”, Tata McGraw Hill, 4th Edition, 

2019. 

2. MS Naidu and S Kamakshaiah, “Basic Electrical Engineering”, Tata McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition, 

2008. 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 
1. P. Ramana, M. Suryakalavathi, G.T. Chandrasheker,” Basic Electrical Engineering”, S. 

Chand, 2nd Edition, 2019. 

2. D. C. Kulshreshtha, “Basic Electrical Engineering”, McGraw Hill, 2009 
3. M. S. Sukhija, T. K. Nagsarkar, “Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering”, Oxford, 1st 

Edition, 2012. 

4. Abhijit Chakrabarthi, Sudipta Debnath, Chandan Kumar Chanda, “Basic Electrical 

Engineering”, 2nd Edition, McGraw Hill, 2021. 

5. L. S. Bobrow, “Fundamentals of Electrical Engineering”, Oxford University Press, 2011. 
6. E. Hughes, “Electrical and Electronics Technology”, Pearson, 2010. 
7. V. D. Toro, “Electrical Engineering Fundamentals”, Prentice Hall India, 1989. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)136  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ELEMENTS OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING LAB 

Prerequisites: Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering 
Course Objectives: 
1.  To introduce the concepts of electrical circuits and its components. 
2.  To understand magnetic circuits, DC circuits and AC single phase and three phase circuits. 
3.  To study and understand the different types of DC, AC machines and Transformers. 
4.  To import the knowledge of various electrical installations. 
5.  To introduce the concept of power, power factor and its improvement. 
6.  To introduce the concepts of diodes and transistors. 
7.  To impart the knowledge of various configurations, characteristics and applications. 

Course Outcomes: Upon successful completion of the course, students will be able: 
CO1: To analyze and solve electrical circuits using network laws and theorems. 
CO2: To understand and analyze basic Electric and Magnetic circuits. 
CO3: To study the working principles of Electrical Machines. 
CO4: To introduce components of Low Voltage Electrical Installations. 
CO5: To identify and characterize diodes and various types of transistors. 

List of Experiments: 

PART A: ELECTRICAL 
1.  Verification of KVL and KCL 
2.  (i)  Measurement  of  Voltage,  Current  and  Real  Power  in  primary  and  Secondary  Circuits  of  a 

Single Phase Transformer 
(ii)  Verification  of  Relationship  between  Voltages  and  Currents  (Star Delta,  Delta Delta, Delta 
Star, Star Star) in a Three Phase Transformer 

3.  Measurement of Active and Reactive P ower in a balanced Three phase circuit 
4.  Performance Characteristics of a Separately Excited DC Shunt Motor 
5.  Performance Characteristics of a Three phase Induction Motor 
6.  No Load Characteristics of a Three phase Alternator 

PART B: ELECTRONICS 
1.  Identification and study of 

(i)  Passive  Elements  (R,C,L)  (ii)  Active  Elements  (Diodes,  Transistors  and  FET)  (iii)  Multimeters   
(iv) Function Generator (iv) Regulated Power Supplies (vi) CRO. 

2.  P-N Junction diode characteristics 
3.  Zener diode characteristics and Zener as voltage Regulator 
4.  Input and Output characteristics of Transistor in CB, CE configuration 
5.  Full Wave Rectifier with and without filters 
6.  Input and Output characteristics of FET in CS configuration 

TEXT BOOKS: 
1.  Basic  Electrical  and  electronics  Engineering,  M.S.  Sukija  and  T.K.  Nagasarkar,  Oxford 

University press, 1stEdition, 2012. 

2.  Basic  Electrical  and  electronics  Engineering,  D.P.  Kothari  and  I.J.  Nagarath,  McGraw  Hill 

Education, 2nd  Edition,2020. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)137  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REFERENCE BOOKS: 
1.  Electronic Devices and Circuits, R. L. Boylestad and Louis Nashelsky, PEI and PHI, 9th Edition, 

2006. 

2.  Millman’s  Electronic  Devices  and  Circuits,  J.  Millman,C.  C.  Halkias  and  Satyabrata  Jit,  TMH, 

2nd  Edition, 1998. 

3.  Engineering Circuit Analysis, William Hayt and  Jack E. Kemmerly, McGraw Hill, 6th Edition, 

1971. 

4.  Linear  circuit  analysis,  Raymond  A.  De  Carlo and  Pen,  Min, Lin,  Oxford  University  Press  2nd 

Edition, 2004. 

5.  Network Theory, N. C. Jagan and C. Lakshminarayana, McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition, 2005. 
6.  Network Theory, Sudhakar and Shyam Mohan Palli, Tata McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition, 2011. 
7.  Fundamentals  of  Electrical  Engineering,  L.  S.  Bobrow,  Oxford  University  Press,  12th  Edition 

2003. 

8.  Electrical and Electronic Technology, E. Hughes, Pearson Education, 10th Edition, 2010. 
9.  Electrical Engineering Fundamentals, V. D. Toro, Prentice Hall India, 2nd Edition, 1989. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)138  
 
 
ENGINEERING WORKSHOP 

Course Objectives: 
1. To introduce students to basic manufacturing processes and workshop practices. 
2. To provide hands-on training in carpentry, fitting, welding, sheet metal, and machining 
3. To develop skills in using hand tools and measuring instruments. 
4. To enhance safety awareness and proper handling of workshop equipment. 
5. To build a foundational understanding of industrial production and fabrication. 

Course Outcomes: At the end of the course, the student will be able to: 
1. Understand the basic manufacturing processes and operations. 
2. Use hand tools and equipment safely and efficiently. 
3. Perform basic operations in carpentry, fitting, welding, sheet metal work, and machining 
4. Read and interpret workshop drawings 
5. Develop teamwork, time management, and quality awareness in a workshop environment. 

1. TRADES FOR EXERCISES:  
At least two exercises from each trade: 

i. Carpentry: T- Lap Joint, Dovetail Joint, Mortise and Tenon Joint 
ii. Fitting: V- Fit, Dovetail Fit and Semi- circular fit 
iii. Tin Smithy: Square Tin, Rectangular Tray and Conical Funnel 
iv. Foundry: Preparation of Green Sand Mould using Single Piece and Split Pattern 
v. Welding Practice: Arc Welding and Gas Welding 
vi. House wiring: Parallel and Series, Two-way Switch and Tube Light 
vii. Black Smithy: Round to Square, Fan Hook and S- Hook 

2. TRADES FOR DEMONSTRATION AND EXPOSURE:  
Plumbing, Machine Shop, Metal Cutting (Water Plasma), Power tools in construction and Wood Working 

TEXT BOOKS: 
1. Workshop Practice, B. L. Juneja, Cengage Learning India, 1st edition, 2015. 

2.  Workshop Practice Manual, K. Venkata Reddy, BS Publication, 6th Edition, Rpt.2025  

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)139  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PYTHON PROGRAMMING LAB 

Course Objectives: 
•  To install and run the Python interpreter 
•  To learn control structures. 
•  To Understand Lists, Dictionaries in python 
•  To Handle Strings and Files in Python 

Course Outcomes: Students are able to 
1.  Apply fundamental Python programming concepts to solve basic problems. 
2.  Implement  and  manipulate  Python  data  structures  including  list,  tuples,  dictionaries,  strings,  and 

matrices for data processing. 

3.  Demonstrate  file  handling  operations,  module  creation,  and  exception  handling  for  building  robust 

Python applications. 

4.  Utilize Object-Oriented Programming principles in Python to design and implement custom classes and 

graphical representations using canvas. 

5.  Integrate  external  Python  libraries  like  NumPy,  SciePy,  and  Tkinter  for  numerical  computing,  data 

visualization, and GUI development. 

Note:  The lab experiments will be like the following experiment examples. 

List of Experiments: 
1. 

I.  Use  a  web  browser  to  go  to  the  Python  website  http://python.org.  This  page  contains 
information about Python and links to Python-related pages, and it gives you the ability to 
search the Python documentation. 

II.  Start the Python interpreter and type help() to start the online help utility. 

2.  Start a Python interpreter and use it as a Calculator. 
3.  Write a program to calculate compound interest when principal, rate and number of periods are 

given. 

4.  Read the name, address, email and phone number of a person through the keyboard and print the 

details. 

5.  Print the below triangle using for loop. 5 

4 4 
3 3 3 
2 2 2 2 
1 1 1 1 1 

6.  Write a program to check whether the given input is digit or lowercase character or uppercase 

character or a special character(use 'if-else-if' ladder) 

7.  Python program to print all prime numbers in a given interval (use break) 
8.  Write a program to convert a list and tuple into arrays. 
9.  Write a program to find common values between two arrays. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)140  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Write  a  function  called  palindrome  that  takes  a  string  argument  and  returnsTrue  if  it  is  a 
palindrome and False otherwise. Remember that you can use the built-in function len to check 
the length of a string. 

11. Write a function called is_sorted that takes a list as a parameter and returns True if the list  is 

sorted in ascending order and False otherwise. 

12. Write a function called has_duplicates that takes a list and returns True if there is any element 

that appears more than once. It should not modify the original list. 

13. Write a function called remove_duplicates that takes a list and returns a new list with only the 

unique elements from the original. Hint: they don’t have to be in the same order. 

14. The wordlist I provided, words.txt, doesn’t contain single letter words. So you might want to add 

“I”, “a”, and the empty string. 

15. Write a python code to read dictionary values from the user. Construct a function to invert its 

content. i.e., keys should be values and values should be keys. 

16. Add a comma between the characters. If the given word is 'Apple', it should become 'A,p,p,l,e' 
17. Remove the given word in all the places in a string? 
18. Write a function that takes a sentence as an input parameter and replaces the first letter of every 
word  with  the  corresponding  upper  case  letter  and  the  rest  of  the  letters  in  the  word  by 
corresponding letters in lower  case without using a built-in function? 
19. Writes a recursive function that generates all binary strings of n-bit length 
20. Write a python program that defines a matrix and prints 
21. Write a python program to perform multiplication of two square matrices 
22. How  do  you  make  a  module?  Give  an  example  of  construction  of  a  module  using  different 

geometrical shapes and operations on them as its functions. 

23. Use the structure of exception handling all general-purpose exceptions. 
24. Write  a function called  draw_rectangle that takes  a Canvas  and a Rectangle as  arguments and 

draws a representation of the Rectangle on the Canvas. 

25. Add  an  attribute  named  color  to  your  Rectangle  objects  and  modify  draw_rectangle  so  that  it 

uses the color attribute as the fill color. 

26. Write a function called draw_point that takes a Canvas and a Point as arguments and draws a 

representation of the Point on the Canvas. 

27. Define a new class called Circle with appropriate attributes and instantiate a few  Circle objects. 

Write a function called draw_circle that draws circles on the canvas. 

28. Write  a  python  code  to  read  a  phone  number  and  email-id  from  the  user  and  validate  it  for 

correctness. 

29. Write a Python code to merge two given file contents into a third file. 
30. Write  a  Python  code  to  open  a  given  file  and  construct  a  function  to  check  for  given  words 

present in it and display on found. 

31. Write a Python code to Read text from a text file, find the word with most number of occurrences 
32. Write  a  function  that  reads  a  file  file1and  displays  the  number  of  words,  number  of  vowels, 

blank spaces, lower case letters and uppercase letters. 

33. Import numpy, Plotpy and Scipy and explore their functionalities. 
34. Install NumPypackage with pip and explore it. 
35. Write a program to implement Digital Logic Gates – AND, OR, NOT, EX-OR 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)141  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Write a GUI program to create a window wizard having two text labels, two text fields and two 

buttons as Submit and Reset. 

TEXT BOOKS: 
1.  Supercharged Python: Take your code to the next level, Overland, 2019. 
2.  Learning Python, Mark Lutz, 5th Edition, O'reilly. 

REFERENCE BOOKS: 
1.  Python Programming: A Modern Approach, Vamsi Kurama, Pearson, 2018. 
2.  Python  Programming  A  Modular  Approach  with  Graphics,  Database,  Mobile,  and  Web 

Applications, Sheetal Taneja, Naveen Kumar, 1st Edition, Pearson 

3.  Introduction to Python Programming, Gowrishakar S, Veena A, CRC Press, 2018 
4.  Programming with Python, A User’s Book, Michael Dawson, Cengage Learning, 3rd Edition, India  
5.  Python for Data Science, Dr. Mohd Abdul Hameed, Wiley publications, 2021. 
6.  Core Python Programming, Dr. R. Nageswara Rao, 3rd Edition, Dreamtech press. 
7.  Introduction to Python, Gowrishankar S, Veena A., CRC Press 2018. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)142  
 
 
 
 
IT WORKSHOP 

Course Objectives: The IT Workshop for engineers is a training lab course spread over 60 hours. 
The modules include training on PC Hardware, Internet & World Wide Web and Productivity tools 
including Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Publisher. 

Course Outcomes: Students are able to 
•  Perform Hardware troubleshooting 
•  Understand Hardware components and inter dependencies 
•  Safeguard computer systems from viruses/worms 
•  Document/ Presentation preparation 
•  Perform calculations using spreadsheets 

PC Hardware 
Task 1: Identify the peripherals of a computer, components in a CPU and its functions. Draw the 
block  diagram  of  the  CPU  along  with  the  configuration  of  each  peripheral  and  submit  to  your 
instructor. 
Task  2:  Every  student  should  disassemble  and  assemble  the  PC  back  to  working  condition.  Lab 
instructors should verify the work and follow it up with a Viva. Also students need to go through 
the  video  which  shows  the  process  of  assembling  a  PC.  A  video  would  be  given  as  part  of  the 
course content. 
Task  3:  Every  student  should  individually  install  MS  windows  on  the  personal  computer.  Lab 
instructor should verify the installation and follow it up with a Viva. 
Task 4: Every student should install Linux on the computer. This computer should have windows 
installed.  The  system  should  be  configured  as  dual  boot  with  both  Windows  and  Linux.  Lab 
instructors should verify the installation and follow it up with a Viva 

Internet & World Wide Web 
Task1:  Orientation  &  Connectivity  Boot  Camp:  Students  should  get  connected  to  their  Local 
Area  Network  and  access  the  Internet.  In  the  process  they  configure  the  TCP/IP  setting.  Finally 
students should demonstrate, to the instructor, how to access the websites and email. If there is no 
internet connectivity preparations need to be made by the instructors to simulate the WWW on the 
LAN. 
Task 2: Web Browsers, Surfing the Web: Students customize their web browsers with the LAN 
proxy  settings,  bookmarks,  search  toolbars  and  pop  up  blockers.  Also,  plug-ins  like  Macromedia 
Flash and JRE for applets should be configured. 
Task 3: Search Engines & Netiquette: Students should know what search engines are and how to 
use the search engines. A few topics would be given to the students for which they need to search 
on Google. This should be demonstrated to the instructors by the student. 
Task  4:  Cyber  Hygiene:  Students  would  be  exposed  to  the  various  threats  on  the  internet  and 
would be asked to configure their computer to be safe on the internet. They need to customize their 
browsers to block pop ups, block active x downloads to avoid viruses and/or worms. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)143  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LaTeX and WORD 
Task 1 – Word Orientation: The mentor needs to give an overview of LaTeX and Microsoft (MS) 
office or equivalent (FOSS) tool word: Importance of LaTeX and MS office or equivalent (FOSS) 
tool Word as word Processors, Details of the four tasks and features that would be covered in each, 
Using LaTeX and word – Accessing, overview of toolbars, saving files, Using help and resources, 
rulers, format painter in word. 
Task  2:  Using  LaTeX  and  Word  to  create  a  project  certificate.  Features  to  be  covered:- 
Formatting  Fonts  in  word,  Drop  Capin  word,  Applying  Text  effects,  Using  Character  Spacing, 
Borders and Colors, Inserting Header and Footer, Using Date and Time option in both LaTeX and 
Word. 
Task  3:  Creating  project  abstract  Features  to  be  covered:-Formatting  Styles,  Inserting  table, 
Bullets and Numbering, Changing Text Direction, Cell alignment, Footnote, Hyperlink, Symbols, 
Spell Check, Track Changes. 
Task 4: Creating a Newsletter: Features to be covered:- Table of Content, Newspaper columns, 
Images  from  files  and clip  art,  Drawing  tool  bar  and  Word  Art,  Formatting  Images,  Text  boxes, 
Paragraphs and Mail Merge in word. 

Excel 
Excel  Orientation:  The  mentor  needs  to  tell  the  importance  of  MS  office  or  equivalent  (FOSS) 
tool  Excel  as  a  Spreadsheet  tool,  give  the  details  of  the  four  tasks  and  features  that  would  be 
covered in each. Using Excel – Accessing, overview of toolbars, saving excel files, Using help and 
resources. 

Task 1: Creating a Scheduler - Features to be covered: Grid lines, Format Cells, Summation, auto 
fill, Formatting Text 
Task  2:  Calculating  GPA  -  Features  to  be  covered:-  Cell  Referencing,  Formulae  in  excel  – 
average,  std.  deviation,  Charts,  Renaming  and  Inserting  worksheets,  Hyper  linking,  Count 
function, LOOKUP/VLOOKUP 
Task  3:  Split  cells,  freeze  panes,  group  and  outline,  Sorting,  Boolean  and  logical  operators, 
Conditional formatting 

PowerPoint 
Task 1: Students will be working on basic power point utilities and tools which help them create 
basic  PowerPoint  presentations.  PPT  Orientation,  Slide  Layouts,  Inserting  Text,  Word  Art, 
Formatting Text, Bullets and Numbering, Auto Shapes, Lines and Arrows in PowerPoint. 
Task 2: Interactive presentations - Hyperlinks, Inserting –Images, Clip Art, Audio, Video, Objects, 
Tables and Charts. 
Task  3:  Master  Layouts  (slide,  template,  and  notes),  Types  of  views  (basic,  presentation,  slide 
slotter, notes etc), and Inserting – Background, textures, Design Templates, Hidden slides. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)144  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REFERENCE BOOKS: 
1.  Comdex Information Technology course tool kit Vikas Gupta, WILEY Dreamtech 
2.  The  Complete  Computer  upgrade  and  repair  book,  Cheryl  A  Schmidt,  3rd  edition  WILEY 

Dreamtech 

3.  Introduction  to  Information  Technology,  ITL  Education  Solutions  limited,  7th  Edition,  Pearson 

Education. 

4.  PC Hardware - A Handbook – 1st Edition Kate J. Chase PHI (Microsoft) 
5.  LaTeX Companion – Leslie Lamport, 2nd Edition,  PHI/Pearson. 
6.  IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software Companion Guide, David Anfinson and Ken Quamme 

Third Edition by – CISCO Press, Pearson Education. 

7.  IT  Essentials  PC  Hardware  and  Software  Labs  and  Study  Guide  by  Patrick  Regan,  Third 

Edition– CISCO Press, Pearson Education. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)145  
 
 
APPLIED PYTHON PROGRAMMING LAB 

Course Objectives:  
1.  To outline the fundamental Concepts and illustrate the basic programs. 
2.  To develop python codes for different applications. 
3.  To utilize Raspberry PI to implement basic hardware applications. 

Course Outcomes: Upon successful completion of the course, students will be able to: 
CO1:  Outline the fundamental Concepts and illustrate the basic programs. 
CO2:  Develop python codes for different applications. 
CO2:  Utilize Raspberry PI to implement basic hardware applications. 

LIST OF EXPERIMENTS: 
Cycle - 1 

1.  Downloading and Installing Python and Modules 

a)  Python 3 on Linux 

Follow 
guide.org/starting/install3/linux/ 

instructions 

the 

b)  Python 3 on Windows 

given 

in 

the  URL 

https://docs.python-

the 

Follow 
https://docs.python.org/3/using/windows.html 
installation of Python is harder!) 

instructions 

given 

in 

(Please 

remember 

URL 
the 
that  Windows 

c)  pip3 on Windows and Linux 

Install  the  Python  package  installer  by  following  the  instructions  given  in  the 
URL https://www.activestate.com/resources/quick-reads/how-to-install-and-use-pip3/ 

d)  Installing numpy and scipy 

You  can  install  any  python3  package  using  the  command  pip3  install 
<packagename> 
e)  Installing jupyterlab 

Install from pip using the command pip install jupyterlab 

2.  Introduction to Python3 

a)  Printing your biodata on the screen 
b)  Printing all the primes less than a given number 
c)  Finding all the factors of a number and show whether it is a perfect number, i.e., the 

sum of all its factors (excluding the number itself) is equal to the number itself 

3.  Defining and Using Functions 

a)  Write a function to read data from a file and display it on the screen 
b)  Define a boolean function is palindrome(<input>) 
c)  Write a function collatz(x) which does the following: if x is odd, x = 3x + 1; if x is 

even, then x = x/2. Return the number of steps it takes for x = 1 

d)  Write  a  function  N(m,  s)  =  exp(-(x-m)2/(2s2))/sqrt(2π)s  that  computes  the  Normal 

distribution 
4.  The package numpy 

a)  Creating a matrix of given order m x n containing random numbers in the range 1 to 

99999 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)146 
 
 
 
 
b)  Write a program that adds, subtracts and multiplies two matrices. Provide an interface 
such  that,  based  on  the prompt,  the  function  (addition,  subtraction, multiplication) 
should be performed 

c) Write  a  program  to  solve  a  system  of  n  linear  equations  in  n  variables  using  matrix 
inverse 

5.  The package scipy and pyplot 

a)  Finding if two sets of data have the same mean value 
b)  Plotting data read from a file 
c)  Fitting a function through a set a data points using polyfit function 
d)  Plotting a histogram of a given data set 

6.  The strings package 

a)  Read text from a file and print the number of lines, words and characters 
b)  Read text from a file and return a list of all n letter words beginning with a vowel 
c)  Finding a secret message hidden in a paragraph of text 
d)  Plot a histogram of words according to their length from text read from a file 

Cycle -2 
7.  Installing 

Raspberry Pi 

OS 

on 

a)  Installation using PiImager 
b)  Installation using image file 

•  Downloading an Image, Writing the image to an SD card 
•  using Linux, using Windows 
•  Booting up 

the 

instructions 

Follow 
the  URL 
https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/computers/gett
ing-started.html 

given 

in 

8.  Accessing GPIO pins using Python 
a)  Installing GPIO Zero library. 

First, update your repositories list: sudo apt update 
Then install the package for Python 3: sudo apt install python3-gpiozero 

b)  Blinking an LED connected to one of the GPIO pin 
c)  Adjusting the brightness of an LED 
d)  Adjust  the  brightness  of  an  LED  (0  to  100,  where  100  means  maximum 

brightness) using the in-built PWM wavelength. 

9.  Collecting Sensor Data 

a)  DHT Sensor interface 

◦  Connect the terminals of DHT GPIO pins of Raspberry Pi. 
◦  Import the DHT library using import Adafruit_DHT 
◦  Read sensor data and display it on screen. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)147 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)148 
 
 
DATA STRUCTURES LAB 

Prerequisites: 1. A Course on “Programming for problem solving”. 

Course Objectives: 
1.  To  enable  students  to  implement  programs  in  C  for  solving  problems  using  fundamental 

programming constructs. 

2.  To  provide  practical  exposure  to the  implementation  of  linear  data  structures  such  as arrays, 

stacks, and queues. 

3.  To  develop  skills  in  applying  searching  and  sorting  algorithms  to  process  and  organize  data 

efficiently. 

4.  To impart hands-on experience with non-linear data structures such as linked lists, trees, and 

graphs. 

5.  To  train  students  in  analyzing  the  performance  of  different  algorithms  and  selecting 

appropriate data structures for problem–solving. 

Course Outcomes: Students are be able to 
1. 
Implement and manipulate various types of linked lists with fundamental operations. 
2.  Design and develop stack and queue data structures using arrays and abstract data types. 
3.  Apply and implement different sorting algorithms to organize data in ascending order. 
4.  Construct and traverse complex tree data structures including Binary Search Trees, B-Trees, B+ 

5. 

Trees, AVl Trees, and Red-Black Trees. 
Implement graph traversal algorithms and various hashing functions for efficient data searching 
and storage. 

List of Experiments 

1.  Write a program  that uses  functions  to  perform  the following operations  on singly linked 

list.: 
i) Creation 

ii) Insertion 

iii) Deletion 

iv) Traversal 

2.  Write a program that uses functions to perform the following operations on doubly linked 

list.: 
i) Creation 

ii) Insertion 

iii) Deletion 

iv) Traversal 

3.  Write a program that uses functions to perform the following operations on circular linked 

list.: 
i) Creation 

ii) Insertion 

iii) Deletion 

iv) Traversal 

i) Arrays 

4.  Write a  program that implement stack (its operations) using 
ii) ADT 
5.  Write a program that implement Queue (its operations) using 
ii) ADT 

i) Arrays 

6.  Write a program that implements the following sorting methods to sort a given list 

of integers in ascending order 
i)  Radix Sort, ii) Heap sort, iii) Shell Sort, iv) Tree Sort 

7.  Write a program to implement the tree traversal methods (Recursive and Non-Recursive). 
8.  Write a program to implement 

i) Binary Search tree 

trees 

ii)  AVL trees   

iii)  Red  -  Black 

9.  Write a program to implement the graph traversal methods. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)149 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Write a program to implement the following Hash Functions: i) Division Method, 

ii) Multiplication Method, iii) Mid-square Method, iv) Folding Method 

TEXT BOOKS: 
1.  Fundamentals  of  Data  Structures  in  C,  ,  E.  Horowitz,  S.  Sahni  and  Susan  Anderson 

Freed, 2nd  Edition Universities Press. 

2.  Data  Structures  using  C  A.  S.  Tanenbaum,  Y.  Langsam,  and  M.  J.  Augenstein,  -  2nd 

Edition,  PHI/Pearson Education. 

REFERENCE BOOK: 

1.  Data Structures: A Pseudocode Approach with C, R. F. Gilberg and B. A. Forouzan, 2nd 

Edition, Cengage Learning. 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)150 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 

NNRG I B. Tech Handbook (AY: 2025-26)152 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. Tech 1st Year (2025-26)

